Project Gutenberg's The Corner House Girls Under Canvas, by Grace Brooks Hill

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: The Corner House Girls Under Canvas
       How they reached Pleasant Cove and what happened afterward

Author: Grace Brooks Hill

Illustrator: R. Emmett Owen

Release Date: February 1, 2012 [EBook #38742]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CORNER HOUSE GIRLS UNDER CANVAS ***




Produced by Roger Frank and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









[Illustration: Before either Tess or Dot thought to cry out for
help, they were out of sight of the camp.]




THE CORNER HOUSE

GIRLS UNDER CANVAS

 HOW THEY REACHED PLEASANT COVE
 AND WHAT HAPPENED AFTERWARD

BY

GRACE BROOKS HILL

Author of “The Corner House Girls,”
“The Corner House Girls at School,” etc.

_ILLUSTRATED BY_

_R. EMMETT OWEN_

NEW YORK

BARSE & HOPKINS

PUBLISHERS




BOOKS FOR GIRLS

The Corner House Girls Series

By Grace Brooks Hill

_Illustrated._

  THE CORNER HOUSE GIRLS
  THE CORNER HOUSE GIRLS AT SCHOOL
  THE CORNER HOUSE GIRLS UNDER CANVAS
  THE CORNER HOUSE GIRLS IN A PLAY
  THE CORNER HOUSE GIRLS’ ODD FIND
  THE CORNER HOUSE GIRLS ON A TOUR

(_Other volumes in preparation_)

BARSE & HOPKINS

Publishers—New York

Copyright, 1915,

by

Barse & Hopkins

_The Corner House Girls Under Canvas_

Printed in U. S. A.




CONTENTS

  I. Tom Jonah
  II. Something to Look Forward To
  III. The Dance at Carrie Poole’s
  IV. The Mystery of June Wildwood
  V. Off for the Seaside
  VI. On the Train
  VII. Something Ahead
  VIII. The Gypsy Camp
  IX. The Spoondrift Bungalow
  X. Some Excitement
  XI. The Little Old Woman Who Lived in a Shoe
  XII. A Picnic with Agamemnon
  XIII. The Night of the Big Wind
  XIV. An Important Arrival
  XV. Two Girls in a Boat—to Say Nothing of the Dog!
  XVI. The Gypsies Again
  XVII. On Wild Goose Island
  XVIII. The Search
  XIX. A Startling Meeting
  XX. The Frankfurter Man
  XXI. Mrs. Bobster’s Mysterious Friend
  XXII. The Yarn of the “Spanking Sal”
  XXIII. The Shadow
  XXIV. Brought to Book
  XXV. The End of the Outing




ILLUSTRATIONS

Before either Tess or Dot thought to cry out for help,
they were out of sight of the camp

A kicking figure was sprawled on the roof, clinging
with both hands to the ridge of it

Ruth actually went back, groping through the
gathering smoke, for the doll. With it she scrambled
out upon the shingles

The dog was perplexed. He started after the man;
he started back for the girls. He whined and he
barked




THE CORNER HOUSE GIRLS UNDER CANVAS




CHAPTER I

TOM JONAH


“Come here, Tess! Come quick and look at this poor dog. He’s just
drip-ping-_wet_!”

Dot Kenway stood at a sitting-room window of the old Corner House,
looking out upon Willow Street. It was a dripping day, and anything or
anybody that remained out-of-doors and exposed to the downpour for
half an hour, was sure to be saturated.

Nothing wetter or more miserable looking than the dog in question had
come within the range of the vision of the two younger Corner House
girls that Saturday morning.

Tess, who was older than Dot, came running. Anything as frightfully
despondent and hopeless looking as that dog was bound to touch the
tender heart of Tess Kenway.

“Let’s—let’s take him to the porch and feed him, Dot,” she cried.

“Will Ruthie let us?” asked Dot.

“Of course. She’s gone for her music lesson and won’t know, anyway,”
declared Tess, recklessly.

“But maybe Mrs. MacCall won’t like it?”

“She’s upstairs and won’t know, either. Besides,” Tess said,
bolstering up her own desire, “she says she hasn’t ever sent anybody
away hungry from her door; and that poor dog looks just as hungry as
any tramp that ever came to the old Corner House.”

The girls ran out of the sitting-room into the huge front hall which,
in itself, was almost big enough for a ballroom. It was finished in
dark, dark oak; there was a huge front door—like the door of a
castle; the furniture was walnut, upholstered in haircloth, worn shiny
by more than three generations of use; and out of the middle of the
hall a great stairway arose, dividing when half-way up into two
sections, while a sort of gallery was built all around the hall at the
second floor, out of which the doors of the principal chambers opened.

There was a third story above, and above that a huge garret—often the
playroom of the Corner House girls on such days as this. In the rear
were two wings built on to the house, each three stories in height.
The house had its “long” side to Willow Street, and only a narrow
grass plot and brick walk separated the sitting-room windows from the
boundary fence.

It faced Main Street, at its head, where the Parade Ground began. The
dripping trees on the Parade were now in full leaf and the lush grass
beneath them was green. The lawns of the old Corner House needed the
mower, too; and at the back Uncle Rufus—the general factotum of the
establishment—had laid out a wonderful kitchen garden which already
had yielded radishes and tender onions and salad, and promised green
peas to accompany the spring lamb to the table on the approaching
Fourth.

Tess and Dot Kenway crossed the big hall of the Corner House, and went
on through the dining-room with its big table, huge, heavily carved
sideboard and comfortably armed chairs, through the butler’s pantry
into the kitchen. As Tess had said, Mrs. MacCall, their good-natured
and lovable housekeeper, was not in sight. Nobody delayed them, and
they stepped out upon the half-screened porch at the back. The
woodshed joined it at the far end. The steps faced Willow Street.

On the patch of drying green a goat was tethered, lying down in the
rain, reflectively chewing a cud. He bleated when he saw the girls,
but did not offer to rise; the rain did not disturb him in the least.

“Billy Bumps likes the rain,” Dot said, thoughtfully.

The dog outside the gate did not seem to be enjoying himself. He had
dropped down upon the narrow strip of sward between the flagged walk
and the curbing; his sides heaved as though he had run a long way, and
his pink tongue lolled out of his mouth and dripped.

“My!” Dot murmured, as she saw this, “the rain’s soaked right through
the poor doggy—hasn’t it? And it’s just dripping out of him!”

Tess, more practical, if no more earnest in her desire to relieve the
dog’s apparent misery, ran down to the gate through the falling rain
and called to him:

“Poor, poor doggie! Come in!”

She opened the gate temptingly, but the strange dog merely wagged his
tail and looked at her out of his beautiful brown eyes. He was a
Newfoundland dog, with a cross of some breed that gave him patches of
deep brown in his coat and very fine, long, silky hair that curled up
at the ends. He was strongly built and had a good muzzle which was
powdered with the gray hairs of age.

“Come here, old fellow,” urged Tess, “_Do_ come in!”

She snapped her fingers and held the gate more invitingly open. He
staggered to his feet and limped toward her. He did not crouch and
slink along as a dog does that has been beaten; but he eyed her
doubtfully as though not sure, after all, of this reception.

He was muddied to his flanks, his coat was matted with green burrs,
and there was a piece of frayed rope knotted about his neck. The dog
followed Tess doubtfully to the porch. Billy Bumps climbed to his feet
and shook his head threateningly, stamping his feet; but the strange
dog was too exhausted to pay the goat any attention.

The visitor at first refused to mount the steps, but he looked up at
Dot and wagged his tail in greeting.

“Oh, Tess!” cried the smallest girl. “He thinks he knows me. Do you
suppose we have ever seen him before?”

“I don’t believe so,” said Tess, bustling into the woodshed and out
again with a pan of broken meat that had been put aside for Sandyface
and her children. “I know I should remember him if I had ever seen him
before. Come, old fellow! Good doggie! Come up and eat.”

She put the pan down on the porch and stood back from it. The brown
eyes of the dog glowed more brightly. He hesitatingly hobbled up the
steps.

A single sniff of the tidbits in the pan, and the dog fell to
wolfishly, not stopping to chew at all, but fairly jerking the meat
into his throat with savage snaps.

“Oh, don’t gobble so!” gasped Dot. “It—it’s bad for your
indigestions—and isn’t polite, anyway.”

“Guess you wouldn’t be polite if you were as hungry as he is,” Tess
observed.

The dog was so tired that he lay right down, after a moment, and ate
with his nose in the pan. Dot ventured to pat his wet coat and he
thumped his tail softly on the boards, but did not stop eating.

At this juncture Uncle Rufus came shuffling up the path from the
hen-coop. Uncle Rufus was a tall, stoop-shouldered, pleasantly brown
negro, with a very bald crown around which was a narrow growth of
tight, grizzled “wool.” He had a smiling face, and if the whites of
his eyes were turning amber hued with age he was still “purty
pert”—to use his own expression—save when the rheumatism laid him
low.

“Whar’ yo’ chillen done git dat dawg?” he wanted to know, in
astonishment.

“Oh, Uncle Rufus!” cried Dot. “He came along looking _so_ wet——”

“And he was _so_ tired and hungry,” added Tess.

“I done spec’ yo’ chillen would take in er wild taggar, ef one come
erlong lookin’ sort o’ meachin’,” grumbled the colored man.

“But he’s so good!” said Tess. “See!” and she put her hand upon the
handsome head of the bedraggled beast.

“He jes’ er tramp dawg,” said Uncle Rufus, doubtfully.

“He’s only tired and dirty,” said Tess, earnestly. “I don’t believe he
wants to be a tramp. He doesn’t look at all like the tramps Mrs.
MacCall feeds at the back door here.”

“Nor like those horrid Gypsies that came to the house the other day,”
added Dot eagerly. “I was afraid of them.”

“Well, it suah ain’t b’long ’round yere—dat dawg,” muttered Uncle
Rufus. “It done run erway f’om somewhar’ an’ hit trabbel
far—ya-as’m!”

He pulled the ears of the big dog himself, in a kindly fashion, and
the dog pounded the porch harder with his tail and rolled a trusting
eye up at the little group. Evidently the tramp dog was convinced that
this would be a good place to remain in, and “rest up.”

A pretty girl of twelve or thirteen, with flower-like face, plump, and
her blue eyes dancing and laughing in spite of her, ran in at the side
gate. She had a covered basket of groceries on her arm, and was
swathed in a raincoat with a close hood about her face.

“Agnes!” screamed Dot. “See what we’ve got! Just the nicest,
friendfulnest dog——”

“Mercy, Dot! More animals?” was the older sister’s first comment.

“But he’s such a _nice_ dog,” wailed Dot.

“And so hungry and wet,” added Tess.

“What fine eyes he has!” exclaimed Agnes, stooping down to pat the
noble head. Instantly the dog’s pink tongue sought her hand and—Agnes
was won!

“He’s splendid! he’s a fine old fellow!” she cried. “Of course we’ll
keep him, Dot.”

“If Ruthie says so,” added Tess, with a loyalty to the oldest Corner
House girl born of the fact that Ruth had mothered the brood of three
younger sisters since their real mother had died three years previous.

“I dunno wot yo’ chillen want er dawg for,” complained Uncle Rufus.

“To keep chicken thieves away,” said Agnes, promptly, laughing
roguishly at the grumbling black man.

“Oh!” cried Tess. “You said yourself, Uncle Rufus, that those Gypsies
that stopped here might be looking at Ruth’s chickens.”

“Well, I done guess dat tramp dawg knows when he’s well off,” said the
old man, chuckling suddenly. “He’s layin’ down lak’ he’s fixin’ tuh
stay—ya-as’m!”

The dog had crept to the most sheltered corner of the porch and curled
up on an old rag mat Mrs. MacCall had left there for the cats.

“He ought to have that dirty old rope taken off,” said Agnes.

Uncle Rufus drew out his clasp knife and opened the blade. He
approached the weary dog and knelt down to remove the rope.

“Glo-_ree_!” he exclaimed, suddenly. “He done got er collar on him.”

It was hidden in the thick hair about the dog’s neck. The three girls
crowded close to see, Uncle Rufus unbuckled it and handed the leather
strap to Agnes.

“See if there is any name and address on it, Aggie!” gasped Tess. “Oh!
I hope not. Then, if we don’t know where he came from, he’s ours for
keeps.”

There was a small brass plate; but no name, address, or license number
was engraved upon it. Instead, in clear script, it was marked:

                     “THIS IS TOM JONAH. HE IS A
                              GENTLEMAN.”

“There!” cried Dot, as though this settled the controversy. “What did
I tell you? He _can’t_ be any tramp dog. He’s a gentleman.”

“‘Tom Jonah,’” murmured Agnes. “What a funny name!”

When Ruth came home the younger girls bore her off at once to see Tom
Jonah sleeping comfortably on the porch. The old dog raised his
grizzled muzzle, wagged his tail, and beamed at her out of his soft
brown eyes.

“The dear love!” cried Tess, clasping her hands. “Isn’t he beautiful,
Ruthie?”

“Beautifully dirty,” said Ruth, doubtfully.

“Oh, but Uncle Rufus says he will wash him to-morrow. He’s got some
insect—insecty-suicide soap like he puts on the henroosts——”

“Insecticide, Dot,” admonished Tess. “I wish you wouldn’t try to say
words that you _can’t_ say.”

Dot pouted. But Ruth patted her head and said, soothingly:

“Never mind, honey. We’ll let the poor dog stay till he rests up,
anyway. He looks like a kind creature.”

But she, as well as the adults in the old Corner House, did not expect
to see Tom Jonah the next morning when they awoke. He was allowed to
remain on the porch, and despite the objections of Sandyface, the
mother cat, and the army of younger felines growing up about her, Tom
Jonah was given a bountiful supper by Mrs. MacCall herself.

Dot and Tess ran to peep at the dog just before going to bed that
night. He blinked at them in the lampshine from the open door, and
thumped the porch flooring with his tail.

It was past midnight before anything more was heard of Tom Jonah. Then
the whole house was aroused—not to say the neighborhood. There was a
savage salvo of barks from the porch, and down the steps scrambled Tom
Jonah. They heard him go roaring down the yard.

Then there arose a great confusion at the hen house—a squawking of
frightened hens, the loud “cut, cut, ca-da-cut!” of the rooster,
mingling with which was the voice of at least one human being and the
savage baying of Tom Jonah.




CHAPTER II

SOMETHING TO LOOK FORWARD TO


Uncle Rufus was too old and too stiff to get out of bed and down from
his third-story room in the old Corner House, to be of any assistance
at this midnight incident. But the girls were awakened the moment Tom
Jonah began barking.

“It’s a hen thief!” squealed Tess, leaping out of her own warm nest.

“I hope that dog bites him!” cried Agnes, savagely, from the other
room.

She ran to the window. It was a starlit, but foggy night. She could
see only vaguely the objects out of doors.

Ruth was scrambling into a skirt and dressing sacque; she thrust her
feet into shoes, too, and started downstairs. Mrs. MacCall’s window
went up with a bang, and the girls heard the housekeeper exclaim:

“Shoo! shoo! Get out of there!”

Whoever it was that had roused Tom Jonah, the person was evidently
unable to “get out of there.” The dog’s threatening growls did not
cease, and the man’s voice which had first been heard when the trouble
started, was protesting.

Agnes followed her older sister downstairs. Of course, Aunt Sarah
Maltby, who slept in one of the grand front rooms in the main part of
the house, did not even hear all the disturbance. And there were not
any houses really near the Stower Homestead, which Milton people knew
by the name of “the old Corner House.”

Therefore, the sounds of conflict at the Kenway hennery were not
likely to arouse many people. But when Ruth and Agnes reached
out-of-doors, the younger girl remembered one person who might hear
and be of assistance.

“Let’s call Neale O’Neil!” she cried to Ruth. “He’ll help us.”

“We’d better call a policeman,” said Ruth, running down the brick
path.

“Huh! you wouldn’t find a policeman in Milton at this hour of the
night, if you searched for a week of Sundays,” was the younger girl’s
ambiguous statement. Then she raised her voice and shouted: “Neale!
Neale O’Neil! Help!”

Meantime the dog continued his threatening bayings. The fowls
fluttered and squawked. Billy Bumps began to blat and butt the
partition in his pen. Whoever had ventured into the hennery had gotten
into hot quarters and no mistake!

Ruth stopped suddenly in the path and clutched at Agnes’ arm. Agnes
was as lightly dressed as herself; but it was a warm June night and
there was no danger of their getting cold.

[Illustration: A kicking figure was sprawled on the roof, clinging
with both hands to the ridge of it.]

“Suppose the dog does not remember us?” the older girl gasped in
Agnes’ ear. “Maybe—maybe he’ll tear us to pieces. How savage he
sounds!”

Agnes was frightened; but she had pluck, too. “Come on, Ruth!” she
said. “He is only mad at the thief.”

“If it _is_ a thief,” quavered Ruth. “I—I am afraid to go on, Aggie.”

At that moment the sound of little feet pattering behind them made
both girls turn. There were Dot and Tess, both barefooted, and Dot
with merely a doubled-up comforter snatched from her bed, wrapped over
her night clothes.

“Mercy me, children!” gasped Ruth. “What are you doing here?”

“Oh, we mustn’t let Tom Jonah _bite_ that man,” Tess declared, and
kept right on running toward the henhouse.

“If that dog bites——” screamed Ruth, and ran after her smaller
sister.

There was the big dog leaping savagely toward the low eaves of the
hennery. A kicking figure was sprawled on the roof, clinging with both
hands to the ridge of it. The girls obtained a glimpse of a dark face,
with flashing teeth, and big gold rings in the marauder’s ears.

“Tak’ dog away! Tak’ dog away!” the man said, in a strangled voice.

“He’s one of those Gypsies,” whispered Agnes, in an awed voice.

A tribe of the nomads in question had passed through Milton but a day
or two before, and the girls had been frightened by the appearance of
the men of the tribe who had called at the old Corner House.

Now, whether this marauder belonged to the same people or not, Ruth
saw that he looked like a Gypsy. For another reason, too, her mind was
relieved at once; Tom Jonah was only savage toward the man on the
roof.

When Tess ran right up to the leaping dog, he stopped barking, and
wagged his tail, as though satisfied that he had done his duty in
drawing the family to the scene. But he still kept his eyes on the
man, and occasionally uttered a growl deep in his throat.

“What are you doing up there?” Ruth demanded of the man.

“Tak’ away dog!” he whined.

“No. I think I will let the dog hold you till a policeman comes. You
were trying to rob our henroost.”

“Oh, no, Missee! You wrong. No do that,” stammered the man.

“What were you doing here, then?”

Before the fellow could manufacture any plausible tale, a shout came
from beyond the back fence, and somebody was heard to scramble into
the Corner House yard.

“What’s the matter, girls?” demanded Neale O’Neil’s cheerful voice.

“Oh, come here, Neale!” cried Agnes. “Tom Jonah’s caught a Gypsy.”

“Tom _Who_?” demanded the tall, pleasant-faced boy of fifteen, who
immediately approached the henhouse.

“Tom Jonah,” announced Tess. “He’s just the _nicest_ dog!”

The boy saw the group more clearly then. He looked from the savagely
growling animal to the man sprawling on the roof, and burst out
laughing.

“Yes! I guess that fellow up there feels that the dog is very ‘nice.’
Where did you get the dog, and where did _he_ get his name?”

“We’ll tell you all about that later, Neale,” said Ruth, more gravely.
“At least, we’ll tell you all we know about the dear old dog. Isn’t he
a splendid fellow to catch this man at my hens?”

“And the fellow had some in this bag!” exclaimed Neale, finding a bag
of flopping poultry at the corner of the hen-run.

“Tak’ away dog!” begged the man on the roof again.

“That’s all he’s afraid of,” said Agnes. “I bet he has a knife. Isn’t
he a wicked looking fellow?”

“Regular brigand,” agreed Neale. “What we going to do with him?”

“Give him to a policeman,” suggested Agnes.

“Do you suppose the policeman would _want_ him?” chuckled Neale. “To
awaken a Milton officer at this hour of the night would be almost
sacrilege, wouldn’t it?”

“What _shall_ we do?” demanded Agnes.

Ruth had been thinking more sensibly for a few moments. Now she spoke
up decisively:

“The man did not manage to do any harm. Put the poultry back in the
house, Neale. If he ever comes again he will know what to expect. He
thought we had no dog; but he sees we have—and a savage one. Let him
go.”

“Had we better do that, sister?” whispered Agnes. “Oughtn’t he to be
punished?”

“I expect so,” Ruth said, grimly. “But for once I am going to shirk my
duty. We’ll take away the dog and let him go.”

“Who’ll take him away?” demanded Agnes, suddenly.

Neale had taken the sack in which the fowl struggled, to the door of
the henhouse, opened it, and dumped the fowl out. Tom Jonah evidently
recognized him for a friend, for he wagged his tail, but still kept
his eye on the man upon the roof.

“I declare!” said Ruth. “I hadn’t thought. Whom will he mind?”

“Come here, Tom Jonah!” said Neale, snapping his fingers.

Tom Jonah still wagged his tail, but he remained ready to receive the
Gypsy (if such the fellow was) in his jaws, if he descended.

“Come away, Tom!” exclaimed Agnes, confidently. “Come on back to the
house.”

The man on the roof moved and Tom Jonah stiffened. He refused to
budge.

“Guess you’ll have to call a cop after all,” said Neale, doubtfully.

“Here, sir!” commanded Ruth. “Come away. You have done enough——”

But the dog did not think so. He held his place and growled.

“I guess you’re bound to stay up there, till daylight—or a
policeman—doth appear, my friend,” called up Neale to the besieged.

“Tak’ away dog!” begged the frightened fellow.

“Why, Tom Jonah!” exclaimed Tess, walking up to the big dog and
putting a hand on his collar. “You must come away when you are spoken
to. You’ve caught the bad man, and that’s enough.”

Tom Jonah turned and licked her hand. Then he moved a few steps away
with her and looked back.

“Come on with me, Tom Jonah,” commanded the little girl, firmly. “Let
the bad man go.”

“What do you know about _that_?” demanded Neale.

The next minute the fellow had scrambled up the roof, caught the low
hanging limb of a shade tree that stood near the fence, and swinging
himself like a cat into the tree, he got out on another branch that
overhung the sidewalk, dropped, and ran.

Tom Jonah sprang to the fence with a savage bay; but the man only went
the faster. The incident was closed in a minute, and the little party
of half-dressed young folk went back to their beds, while the strange
dog curled up on his mat in the corner of the porch again and slept
the sleep of the just till morning.

And now that the excitement is over, let us find out a little
something about the Corner House girls, their friends, their condition
in life, and certain interesting facts regarding them.

When Mr. Howbridge, the lawyer from Milton and Uncle Peter Stower’s
man of affairs and the administrator of his estate, came to the little
tenement on Essex Street, Bloomingsburg, where the four orphaned
Kenway girls had lived for some years with Aunt Sarah Maltby, he first
met Tess and Dot returning from the drugstore with Aunt Sarah’s weekly
supply of peppermint drops.

Aunt Sarah had been a burden on the Kenways for many years. The girls
had only their father’s pension to get along on. Aunt Sarah claimed
that when Uncle Peter died, his great estate would naturally fall to
her, and then she would return all the benefits she had received from
the Kenway family.

But the lawyer knew that queer old Uncle Peter Stower had made a will
leaving practically all his property to the four girls in trust, and
to Aunt Sarah only a small legacy. But this will had been hidden
somewhere by the old man before his recent death and had not yet been
found.

There seemed to be no other claimants to the Stower Estate, however,
and the court allowed Mr. Howbridge to take the Kenway girls and Aunt
Sarah to Milton and establish them in the Stower Homestead, known far
and wide as the old Corner House.

Here, during the year that had passed, many interesting and exciting
things had happened to Ruth and Agnes and Tess and Dot.

Ruth was the head of the family, and the lawyer greatly admired her
good sense and ability. She was not a strikingly pretty girl, for she
had “stringy” black hair and little color; but her eyes were big and
brown, and those eyes, and her mouth, laughed suddenly at you and gave
expression to her whole face. She was now completing her seventeenth
year.

Agnes was thirteen, a jolly, roly-poly girl, who was fond of jokes, a
bit of a tomboy, up to all sorts of pranks—who laughed easily and
cried stormily—had “lots of molasses colored hair” as she said
herself, and was the possessor of a pair of blue eyes that could stare
a rude boy out of countenance, but who _would_ spoil the effect of
this the next instant by giggling; a girl who had a soulmate among her
girl friends all of the time, but not frequently did one last for long
in the catalog of her “best friends.”

Nobody remembered that Tess had been named Theresa. She was a wise
little ten-year-old who possessed some of Ruth’s dignity and some of
Agnes’ prettiness, and the most tender heart in the world, which made
her naturally tactful. She was quick at her books and very courageous.

Dorothy, or Dot, was the baby and pet of the family. She was a little
brunette fairy; and if she was not very wise as yet, she was faithful
and lovable, and not one of “the Corner House girls,” as the Kenways
were soon called by Milton people, was more beloved than Dot.

The girls’ best boy friend lived with the old cobbler, Mr. Con Murphy,
on the rear street, and in a little house the yard of which adjoined
the larger grounds of the old Corner House. We have seen how quickly
Neale O’Neil came to the assistance of the Kenway girls when they were
in trouble.

Neale had been brought up among circus people, his mother having
traveled all her life with Twomley & Sorber’s Herculean Circus and
Menagerie. The boy’s desire for an education and to win a better place
in the world for himself, had caused him to run away from his uncle,
Mr. Sorber, and support himself in Milton while he attended school.

The Corner House girls had befriended Neale and when his uncle finally
searched him out and found the boy, it was they who influenced the man
against taking Neale away. Neale had proved himself an excellent
scholar and had made friends in Milton; now he was about to graduate
with Agnes from the highest grammar grade to high school.

The particulars of all these happenings have been related in the first
two volumes of the series, entitled respectively, “The Corner House
Girls” and “The Corner House Girls at School.”

When Agnes woke up in the morning following the unsuccessful raid of
the Gypsy man on the hennery, she had something of wonderful
importance to tell Ruth. She had seen her “particular friend,” Trix
Severn, on the street Saturday afternoon and Trix had told her
something.

“You’ve heard the girls talking about Pleasant Cove, Ruthie?” said
Agnes, earnestly. “You know Mr. Terrence Severn owns one of the big
hotels there?”

“Of course. Trix talks enough about it,” said the older Kenway girl.

“Oh! you don’t like Trix——”

“I’m not exceedingly fond of her. And there was a time when you
thought her your very deadliest enemy,” laughed Ruth.

“Well! Trix has changed,” declared the unsuspicious Agnes, “and she’s
proposed the very nicest thing, Ruth. She says her mother and father
will let her bring all four of us to the Cove for the first fortnight
after graduation. The hotel will not be full then, and we will be
Trix’s guests. And we’ll have loads of fun.”

“I—don’t—know——-” began Ruth, but Agnes broke in warmly:

“Now, don’t you say ‘No,’ Ruthie Kenway! Don’t you say ‘No!’ I’ve just
made up my mind to go to Pleasant Cove——”

“No need of flying off, Ag,” said Ruth, in the cool tone that usually
brought Agnes “down to earth again.” “We have talked of going there
for a part of the summer. A change to salt air will be beneficial for
us all—so Dr. Forsythe says. I have talked to Mr. Howbridge, and he
says ‘Yes.’”

“Well, then!”

“But I doubt the advisability of accepting Trix Severn’s invitation.”

“Now, isn’t that mean——”

“Hold your horses,” again advised Ruth. “We will go, anyway. If all is
well we will stay at the hotel a while. Pearl Harrod’s uncle owns a
bungalow there, too; _she_ has asked me to come there for a while, and
bring you all.”

“Well! isn’t that nice?” agreed Agnes. “Then we can stay twice as
long.”

“Whether it will be right for us to accept the hospitality offered us
when we have no means of returning it——”

“Oh, dear me, Ruth! don’t be a fuss-cat.”

“There is a big tent colony there—quite removed from the hotel,”
suggested Ruth. “Many of our friends and their folks are going
_there_. Neale O’Neil is going with a party of the boys for at least
two weeks.”

“Say! we’ll have scrumptious times,” cried Agnes, with sparkling eyes.
Her anticipation of every joy in life added immensely to the joy
itself.

“Yes—if we go,” said Ruth, slowly. But it was something for the
others to look forward to with much pleasure.




CHAPTER III

THE DANCE AT CARRIE POOLE’S


Tess and Dot Kenway had something of particular interest to hold their
attention, too, the minute they awoke on this Sunday morning. Dot
voiced the matter first when she asked:

“Do you suppose that dear Tom Jonah is here yet, Tess?”

“Oh, I hope so!” cried the older girl.

“Let’s run see,” suggested Dot, and nothing loth Tess slipped into her
bathrobe and slippers, too, and the two girls pattered downstairs.
Their baths, always overseen by Ruth, were neglected. They must see,
they thought, if the good old dog was on the porch.

Nobody was astir downstairs; Mrs. MacCall had not yet left her room,
and on Sunday mornings even Uncle Rufus allowed himself an extra hour
in bed. There was the delicious smell of warm baked beans left over
night in the range oven; the big, steaming pot would be set upon the
table at breakfast, flanked with golden-brown muffins on one side and
the sliced “loaf,” or brownbread, on the other.

Sandyface came yawning from her basket behind the stove when Tess and
Dot entered the kitchen. She had four little black and white blind
babies in that basket which she had found in a barrel in the woodshed
only a few days before.

Mrs. MacCall said she did not know what was to be done with the four
kittens. Sandyface’s original family was quite grown up, and if these
four were allowed to live, too, that would make nine cats around the
old Corner House.

“And the goodness knows!” exclaimed the housekeeper, “that’s a whole
lot more than any family has a business to keep. We’re overrun with
cats.”

Tess unlocked the door and she and Dot went out on the porch,
Sandyface following. There was no sign of the big dog.

“Tom Jonah’s gone!” sighed Dot, quaveringly.

“I wouldn’t have thought it—when we treated him so nicely,” said
Tess.

Sandyface sniffed suspiciously at the old mat on which the dog had
lain. Then she looked all about before venturing off the porch.

The sunshine and quiet of a perfect Sunday morning lay all about the
old Corner House. Robins sought their very souls for music to tell how
happy they were, in the tops of the cherry trees. Catbirds had not yet
lost their love songs of the spring; though occasionally one scolded
harshly when a roaming cat came too near the hidden nest.

Wrens hopped about the path, and even upon the porch steps, secure in
their knowledge that they were too quick for Sandyface to reach, and
with unbounded faith in human beings. An oriole burst into melody,
swinging in the great snowball bush near the Willow Street fence.

There was a moist, warm smell from the garden; the old rooster crowed
raucously; Billy Bumps bleated a wistful “Good-morning” from his pen.
Then came a scramble of padded feet, and Sandyface went up the nearest
tree like a flash of lightning.

“Here is Tom Jonah!” cried Tess, with delight.

From around the corner of the woodshed appeared the big, shaggy dog.
He cocked one ear and actually smiled when he saw the cat go up the
tree. But he trotted right up on the porch to meet the delighted
girls.

His brown eyes were deep pools where golden sparks played. The mud had
been mostly shaken off his flanks and paws. He was rested, and he
acted as though he were sure of his position here at the old Corner
House.

“Good old fellow!” cried Tess, putting out a hand to pat him.

At once Tom Jonah put up his right paw to shake hands. He repeated the
feat with Dot the next moment, to the delight of both girls.

“Oh!” gasped Dot, “he’s a trick dog.”

“He’s just what his collar says; he’s a gentleman,” sighed Tess,
happily. “Oh! I hope his folks won’t ever come after him.”

Ruth had to come down for Tess and Dot or they would not have been
bathed and dressed in time for breakfast. The smaller girls were very
much taken with Tom Jonah.

They found that he had more accomplishments than “shaking hands.” When
Agnes came down and heard about his first manifestation of education,
she tried him at other “stunts.”

He sat up at the word of command. He would hold a bit of meat, or a
sweet cracker, on his nose any length of time you might name, and
never offer to eat it until you said, “Now, sir!” or something of the
kind. Then Tom Jonah would jerk the tidbit into the air and catch it
in his jaws as it came down.

And those jaws! Powerful indeed, despite some of the teeth having been
broken and discolored by age. For Tom Jonah was no puppy. Uncle Rufus
declared him to be at least twelve years old, and perhaps more than
that.

But he had the physique of a lion—a great, broad chest, and muscles
in his shoulders that slipped under the skin when he was in action
like a tiger’s. Now that he was somewhat rested from the long journey
he had evidently taken, he seemed a very powerful, healthy dog.

“And he would have eaten that tramp up, if he’d gotten hold of him,”
Agnes declared, as they gathered at the breakfast table.

“Oh, no, Aggie; I don’t think Tom Jonah would really have _bitten_
that Gypsy man,” Tess hastened to say. “But he might have grabbed his
coat and held on.”

“With those jaws—I guess he would have held on,” sighed Agnes.

“Anyway,” said Dot, “he saved Ruthie’s hens. Didn’t he, Ruthie?”

“I’ll gladly pay his license fee if he wants to stay with us,” said
Ruth, gaily.

The cornmeal muffins chanced to be a little over-baked that morning;
at least, one panful was. Dot did not like “crusts”; she had been
known to hide very hard ones under the edge of her plate.

She played with one of these muffin crusts more than she ate it, and
Aunt Sarah Maltby (who was a very grim lady indeed with penetrating
eyes and a habit of seldom speaking) had an accusing eye upon the
little girl.

“Dorothy,” she said, suddenly, “you will see the time, I have no
doubt, when you will be hungry for that crust. You had better eat it
now like a nice girl.”

“Aunt Sarah, I really do not want it,” said Dot, gravely. “And—and if
I don’t, do you think I shall really some day be hungry for just
_this_ pertic’lar crust?”

“You will. I expect nothing less,” snapped Aunt Sarah. “The Kenways
was allus spend-thrifts. Why! when I was your age, Dorothy, I was glad
to get dry bread to eat!”

Dot looked at her with serious interest. “You must have been awfully
poor, Aunt Sarah,” she said, sympathetically. “You have a much better
time living with us, don’t you?”

Ruth shook her head admonishingly at the smallest girl; but for once
Aunt Sarah was rather nonplussed, and nobody heard her speak again
before she went off to church.

Neale came over later, dressed for Sunday school, and he was as much
interested in the new boarder at the Corner House as the girls
themselves.

“If he belongs anywhere around Milton, somebody will surely know about
him,” said the boy. “I’ll make inquiries. Wherever he comes from, he
must be well known in that locality.”

“Why so?” demanded Agnes.

“Because of what it says on his collar,” laughed Neale O’Neil.

“Because of what it _doesn’t_ say, I guess,” explained Ruth, seeing
her sister’s puzzled face. “There is no name of owner, or license
number. Do you see?”

“It—it would be an insult to license a dog like Tom Jonah,” sputtered
Tess. “Just—just like a tag on an automobile!”

“Yo’ right, honey,” chuckled Uncle Rufus. “He done seem like
folkses—don’ he? I’se gwine tuh give him a reg’lar barf an’ cure up
dem sore feetses ob his. He’ll be anudder dawg—sho’ will!”

The old man took Tom Jonah to the grass plot near the garden hydrant,
and soaped him well—with the “insect-suicide” soap Dot had talked
about—and afterward washed him down with the hose. Tom Jonah stood
for it all; he had evidently been used to having his toilet attended
to.

When the girls came home from Sunday school, they found him lying on
the porch, all warm and dried and his hair “fluffy.” They had asked
everybody they met—almost—about Tom Jonah; but not a soul knew
anything regarding him.

“He’s going to be ours for keeps! He’s going to be ours for keeps!”
sang Tess, with delight.

Sandyface’s earlier family—Spotty, Almira, Bungle and
Popocatepetl—had taken a good look at the big dog, and then backed
away with swelling tails and muffled objections. But the old cat had
to attend to the four little blind mites behind the kitchen range, so
she had grown familiar enough with Tom Jonah to pass him on her way to
and from the kitchen door.

He was too much of a gentleman, as his collar proclaimed, to pay her
the least attention save for a friendly wag of his bushy tail. To the
four half-grown cats he gave little heed. But Tess and Dot thought
that he ought to become acquainted with the un-named kittens in the
basket immediately.

“If they get used to him, you know,” said Tess, “they’ll all live
together just like a ‘happy family.’”

“Like _us_?” suggested Dot, who did not quite understand the
reference, having forgotten the particular cage thus labeled in the
circus they had seen the previous summer.

“Why! of course like us!” laughed Tess, and Sandyface being away
foraging for her brood, Tess seized the basket and carried it out on
the porch, setting it down before Tom Jonah who was lying in the sun.

The big dog sniffed at the basket but did not offer to disturb the
sleeping kittens. That would not do for the curious girls. They had to
delve deeper into the natural lack of affinity between the canine and
the feline families.

So Tess lifted one little black and white, squirmy kitten—just as its
mother did, by the back of its neck—and set it upon the porch before
the dog’s nose. The kitten became awake instantly. Blind as it was, it
stiffened its spine into an arch, backed away from the vicinity of the
dog precipitately, and “spit” like a tiny teakettle boiling over.

“Oh! oh! the horrid thing,” wailed Dot. “And poor Tom Jonah didn’t do
a thing to it!”

“But see him!” gasped Tess, in a gale of giggles.

For really, Tom Jonah looked too funny for anything. He turned away
his head with a most embarrassed expression of countenance and would
not look again at the spitting little animal. He evidently felt
himself in a most ridiculous position and finally got up and went off
the porch altogether until the girls returned the basket of kittens to
its proper place behind the stove.

At dinner that Sunday, when Uncle Rufus served the roast, he held the
swinging door open until Tom Jonah paced in behind him into the
dining-room. Seeing the roast placed before Mrs. MacCall, Tom Jonah
sat down beside her chair in a good position to observe the feast; but
waited his turn in a most gentlemanly manner.

Mrs. MacCall cut some meat for him and put it on a plate. This Uncle
Rufus put before Tom Jonah; but the big dog did not offer to eat it
until he was given permission. And now he no longer “gobbled,” but ate
daintily, and sat back when he was finished like any well-bred person,
waiting for the next course.

Even Aunt Sarah looked with approval upon the new acquisition to the
family of the old Corner House. She had heard the tale of his rescue
of Ruth’s poultry from the marauding Gypsy, and patted Tom Jonah’s
noble head.

“It’s a good thing to have a watch-dog on the premises,” she said,
“with all that old silver and trash you girls insist upon keeping out
of the plate-safe. Your Uncle Peter would turn in his grave if he knew
how common you was makin’ the Stower plate.”

“But what is the good of having a thing if you don’t make use of it?”
queried Ruth, stoutly.

Ruth was a girl with a mind of her own, and not even the carping
criticisms of Aunt Sarah could turn her from her course if once she
was convinced that what she did was right. Nor was she frightened by
her schoolmates’ opinions—as note her friendship with Rosa Wildwood.

Bob Wildwood was a “character” in Milton. People smiled at him and
forgave his peculiarities to a degree; but they could not respect him.

In the first place, Bob was a Southerner—and a Southerner in a New
England town is just as likely to be misunderstood, as a Northerner in
a Georgian town.

Bob and his daughter, Rosa, had drifted to Milton a couple of years
previous. They had been “drifting” for most of the girl’s short life;
but now Rosa was quite big enough to have some influence with her
shiftless father, and they had taken some sort of root in the harsh
New England soil, so different from their own rich bottom-lands of the
South.

Besides, Rosa was in ill health. She was “weakly”; Bob spoke of her as
having “a mis’ry in her chest.” Dr. Forsythe found that the girl had
weak lungs, but he was sane and old-fashioned enough to scout the idea
that she was in danger of becoming a victim of tuberculosis.

“If you go to work, Bob, and earn for her decent food and a warm
shelter, she will pull through and get as hearty and strong as our
Northern girls,” declared the doctor, sternly. “You say you lost her
twin two years ago——”

“But I didn’t done los’ Juniper by no sickness,” muttered Bob, shaking
his head.

The Corner House girls thought Bob Wildwood a most amusing man, for he
talked just like a darky (to their ears); but Uncle Rufus shook his
head in scorn at Wildwood. “He’s jes’ no-’count white trash,” the old
colored man observed.

However, spurred by the doctor’s threat, Bob let drink alone for the
most part, and went to work for Rosa, his remaining daughter, who was
just Ruth’s age and was in her class at High—when she was well enough
to get there. In spite of her blood and bringing up, Rosa Wildwood had
a quick and retentive mind and stood well in her classes.

Bob became a coal-heaver. He worked for Lovell & Malmsey. He drove a
pair of mules without lines, ordering them about in a most wonderful
manner in a tongue entirely strange to Northern teamsters; and he was
black with coal-dust from week-end to week-end. Ruth said there only
was one visible white part of Rosa’s father; that was the whites of
his eyes.

The man must have loved his daughter very much, however; for it was
his nature to be shiftless. He would have gone hungry and ragged
himself rather than work. He now kept steadily at his job for Rosa’s
sake.

On Monday Rosa was not at school, and coming home to luncheon at noon,
Ruth ran half a block out of her way to find out what was the matter.
Not alone was the tenement the Wildwoods occupied a very poor one, but
Rosa was no housekeeper. It almost disgusted the precise and prim Ruth
Kenway to go into the three-room tenement.

Rosa had a cold, and of course it had settled on her chest. She was
just dragging herself around to get something hot for Bob’s dinner.
Ruth made her go back to bed, and she finished the preparations.

When she came to make the tea, the Corner House girl was horrified to
observe that the metal teapot had probably not been thoroughly washed
out since the day the Wildwoods had taken up their abode in Milton.

“Paw likes to have the tea set back on the stove,” drawled Rosa, with
her pleasant Southern accent. “When he gets a chance, he runs in and
‘takes a swig,’ as he calls it, out of the pot. He says it’s good for
the gnawin’ in his stomach—it braces him up an’ is _so_ much better
than when he useter mix toddies,” said the girl, gratefully. “We’d
have had June with us yet, if it hadn’t been for paw’s toddies.”

“Oh!” cried Ruth, startled. “I thought your sister June died?”

Rosa shook her head and the tears flowed into her soft eyes. “Oh, no.
She went away. She couldn’t stand the toddies no more, she said—and
her slavin’ to keep the house nice, and us movin’ on all the time.
June was housekeeper—she was a long sight smarter’n me, Ruth.”

“But the teachers at school think you are awfully smart,” declared the
Corner House girl.

“June warn’t so smart at her books,” said Rosa. “But she could do
_anything_ with her hands. You’d thunk she was two years older’n me,
too. She was dark and handsome. She got mad, and run away, and then we
started lookin’ for her; but we’ve never found her yet,” sighed Rosa.
“And now I’ve got so miserable that I can’t keep traveling with paw.
So we got to stop here, and maybe we won’t ever see June again.”

“Oh! I hope you will,” cried Ruth. “Now, your father’s dinner is all
ready to dish up. And I’ll come back after school this afternoon and
rid up the house for you; don’t you do a thing.”

Ruth had time that noon for only a bite at home, and explained to Mrs.
MacCall that she would be late in returning from school. She carried a
voluminous apron with her to cover her school frock when she set about
“ridding up” the Wildwood domicile.

Ruth wanted to help Rosa; she hoped Rosa would keep up with the class
and be promoted at the end of the term, as she was sure to be herself.
And she was sorry for sooty, odd-talking Bob Wildwood.

What Rosa had said about her lost twin sister had deeply interested
Ruth Kenway. She wanted, too, to ask the Southern girl about “June,”
or Juniper.

“We were the last children maw had,” said Rosa. “She just seemed to
give up after we were born. The others were all sickly—just drooped
and faded. And they all were girls and had flower names. Maw was right
fanciful, I reckon.

“I wish June had held on. She’d stuck it out, I know, if she’d
believed paw could stop drinking toddies. But, you see he _has_. He
‘swigs’ an awful lot of tea, though, and I expect it’s tanning him
inside just like he was leather!”

Ruth really thought this was probable—especially with the teapot in
the condition she had found it. But she had put some washing soda in
the pot, filled it with boiling water, and set it back on the stove to
stew some of the “tannin” out of it.

While the Corner House girl was talking with Rosa in the little
bedroom the girl called her own, Bob brought his mules to a halt
before the house with an empty wagon, and ran in as usual.

The girls heard him enter the outer room; but Ruth never thought of
what the man’s object might be until Rosa laughed and said:

“There’s paw now, for a swig at the teapot. I hope you left it full
fo’ him, Ruthie, dear.”

“Oh, goodness mercy me!” cried the Corner House girl, and darted out
to the kitchen to warn the man.

But she was too late. Already the begrimed Bob Wildwood had the spout
of the teapot to his lips and several swallows of the scalding and
acrid mixture gurgled down his throat before he discovered that it was
not tea!

“Woof! woof! woof!” he sputtered, and flung pot and all away from him.
“Who done tryin’ poison me! Woof! I’s scalded with poison!”

He coughed and spluttered over the sink, and then tried a draught of
cold water from the spigot—which probably did him just as much good
as anything.

“Oh, dear me, Mr. Wildwood!” gasped Ruth, standing with clasped hands
and looking at the sooty man, half frightened. “I—I was just boiling
the teapot out.”

“Boilin’ it out?”

“Yes, sir. With soda. I—I——It won’t poison you, I guess.”

“My Lawd!” groaned Bob. “What won’t yo’ Northerners do nex’? Wash out
er teapot!” and he grumblingly went forth to his team and drove away.

Ruth felt that her good intentions were misunderstood—to a degree.
But Rosa thanked her very prettily for what she had done, and the next
day she was able to come to school again.

It was only a few days later that Carrie Poole invited a number of the
high school girls and boys—and some of the younger set—to the last
dance of the season at her home. She lived in a huge old farmhouse,
some distance out of town on the Buckshot road, and the Corner House
girls and Neale O’Neil had spent several pleasant evenings there
during the winter and spring.

The night before this party there was a big wind, and a part of one of
the chimneys came down into the side yard during the night with a
noise like thunder; so Ruth had to telephone for a mason before
breakfast.

Had it not been for this happening, the Corner House girls—at least,
Ruth and Agnes—and Neale O’Neil, would have escaped rather an
embarrassing incident at the party.

Neale came over to supper the evening of the party, and he brought his
pumps in a newspaper under his arm.

“Come on, girls, let’s have your dancing slippers,” he said to the two
older Corner House girls, who were going to the dance. “I’ll put them
with mine.”

And he did so—rolling the girls’ pretty slippers up in the same
parcel with his own. He left the parcel in the kitchen. Later it was
discovered that the mason’s helper had left a similarly wrapped parcel
there, too.

When the three young folk started off, it was Agnes who ran back after
the bundle of dancing slippers. Neale carried it under his arm, and
they walked briskly out through the suburbs of Milton and on along the
Buckshot road.

“Are you really going to Pleasant Cove this summer, Neale?” demanded
Agnes, as they went on together.

“If I can. Joe has asked me. And you girls?”

“Trix says we must come to her father’s hotel for two weeks at least,”
Agnes declared.

“Humph!” said Neale, doubtfully. “Are you going, Ruth?”

“I—don’t—know,” admitted the older Corner House girl.

“Now, isn’t that just too mean?” complained Agnes. “You just say that
because you don’t like Trix.”

“I don’t know whether Trix will be of the same mind when the time
comes,” said Ruth, firmly.

“I believe you,” grunted Neale.

Agnes pouted. “It’s just mean of you,” she said. “Of course she will
want us to go.” While Agnes was “spoons” with a girl, she was always
strictly loyal to her. She could not possibly see Trix Severn’s faults
just now.

They arrived at the farmhouse and found a crowd already assembled.
There was a great deal of talking and laughter, and while Neale stood
chatting with some of the boys in the hall, Ruth and Agnes came to him
for their slippers.

“Sure!” said the boy, producing the newspaper-wrapped bundle he
carried. “Guess I’ll put on my own pumps, too.”

He unrolled the parcel. Then a yell of derision and laughter arose
from the onlookers; instead of three pairs of dancing slippers, Neale
produced two pairs of half-worn and lime-bespattered shoes belonging
to the masons who had repaired the old Corner House chimney!

“Now we can’t dance!” wailed Agnes.

“Oh, Neale!” gasped Ruth, while the young folk about them went off
into another gale of laughter.

“Well, it wasn’t my fault,” grumbled Neale. “Aggie went after the
bundle.”

“Shouldn’t have left them right there with the masons’ bundle—so
now!” snapped Agnes.




CHAPTER IV

THE MYSTERY OF JUNE WILDWOOD


Now, Trix Severn had maneuvered so as to get the very first dance with
Neale O’Neil. Among all the boys who attended the upper grammar
grades, and the High, of Milton, the boy who had been brought up in a
circus was the best dancer. The older girls all were glad to get him
for a partner.

Time had been when Trix sneered at “that circus boy,” but that was
before he and the two older Corner House girls had saved Trix from a
collapsing snow palace back in mid-winter.

Since that time she had taken up with Agnes Kenway as her very closest
chum, and she had visited the old Corner House a good deal. When Agnes
and her sister arrived at the party on this evening, with Neale as
escort, Trix determined to have at least _one_ dance with the popular
boy.

“Oh, Neale!” she whispered, fluttering up to him in her very nicest
way, “Ruth and Agnes will be half an hour primping, upstairs. The
music is going to strike up. Do let _us_ have the first dance.”

“All right,” said Neale, good-naturedly.

It was the moment later that the discovery was made of the masons’
shoes in the bundle he carried under his arm.

“Now we can’t dance,” repeated Agnes, when the laughter had somewhat
subsided.

“Oh, Neale can dance just as well,” Trix said, carelessly. “Come on,
Neale! You know this is _our_ dance.”

Of course Neale could dance in his walking shoes. But he saw Agnes’
woebegone face and he hesitated.

“It’s too bad, Aggie,” he said. “If it wasn’t so far——-”

“Why, Neale O’Neill” snapped Trix, unwisely. “You don’t mean to say
you’d be foolish enough to go clear back to the Corner House for those
girls’ slippers?”

Perhaps it was just this opposition that was needed to start Neale
off. He pulled his cap from his pocket and turned toward the door,
with a shrug. “I guess I can get back in an hour, Ag. Don’t you and
Ruth dance much in your heavy shoes until then. You’ll tire yourselves
all out.”

“Why, Neale O’Neill” cried Trix. “You won’t do it?”

Even Ruth murmured against the boy’s making the trip for the slippers.
“We can get along, Neale,” she said, in her quiet way.

“And you promised to dance with me this first dance,” declared Trix,
angrily, as the music began.

Neale did not pay much attention to her—at the moment. “It’s my
fault, I guess,” he said, laughing. “I’ll go back for them, Ag.”

But Trix got right between him and the door. “Now! you sha’n’t go off
and leave me in the lurch that way, Neale O’Neill” she cried, shrilly.

“Aw——There are other dances. Wait till I come back,” he said.

“You can dance in the shoes you have on,” Trix said, sharply.

“What if?”

“But _we_ can’t, Trix,” interposed Agnes, much distressed. “Ruth and
I, you know——”

“I don’t care!” interrupted Trix, boiling over at last. “You Corner
House girls are the most selfish things! You’d spoil his fun for half
the party——”

“Aw, don’t bother!” growled Neale, in much disgust.

“I will bother! You——”

“Guess she thinks she owns you, Neale,” chuckled one of the boys,
adding fuel to the flames. Neale did not feel any too pleasant after
that. He flung away from Trix Severn’s detaining grasp.

“I’m going—it isn’t any of _your_ concern,” he muttered, to the angry
girl.

Ruth bore Agnes away. She was half crying. The rift in the intimacy
between her soulmate and herself was apparent to all.

To make the matter worse—according to Trix’s version—when Neale
finally returned, almost breathless, with the mislaid slippers, he
insisted, first of all, upon dancing with Ruth and Agnes. Then he
would have favored Trix (Ruth had advised it), but the angry girl
would not speak to him.

“He’s nothing but a low circus boy, anyway!” she told Lucy Poole. “And
I don’t think really well-bred girls would care to have anything to do
with him.”

Those who heard her laughed. They had known Trix Severn’s ways for a
long time. She had been upon her good behavior; but it did not
surprise her old acquaintances that she should act like this.

It made a difference to the Corner House girls, however, for it made
their plans about going to Pleasant Cove uncertain.

The other girls knew that Trix had invited the Corner House girls for
the first two weeks after graduation, and that Ruth had tentatively
accepted. Therefore even Pearl Harrod—who wanted Ruth and her
sisters, herself—scarcely knew whether to put in a claim for them or
not.

Graduation Day was very near at hand; the very day following the
closing of the Milton High, several family parties were to leave for
the seaside resort which was so popular in this part of New England.

They had to pass through Bloomingsburg to get to it, but when the
Kenways had lived in that city, they had never expected to spend any
part of the summer season at such a beautiful summer resort as
Pleasant Cove.

It was a bungalow colony, with several fine hotels, built around a
tiny, old-fashioned fishing port. There was a still cove, a beautiful
river emptying into it, and outside, a stretch of rocky Atlantic coast
on which the ocean played grim tunes during stormy weather.

This was as much as the Corner House girls knew about it as yet. But
they all looked forward to their first visit to the place with keen
delight. Tess and Dot were talking about the expected trip a good deal
of the time they were awake. Most of their doll-play was colored now
by thoughts of Pleasant Cove.

They were not too busy to help Mrs. MacCall take the last of the
winter clothing to the garret, however, and see her pack it away in
the chests there. As she did this the housekeeper sprinkled, with
lavish hand, the camphor balls among the layers of clothing.

Dot had tentatively tasted one of the hard, white balls, and
shuddered. “But they _do_ look so much like candy, Tess,” she said.
Then she suddenly had another thought:

“Oh, Mrs. MacCall! what do you suppose the poor moths had to live on
’way back in the Garden of Eden before Adam and Eve wore any clothes?”

“Now, can you beat _that_?” demanded the housekeeper, of nobody in
particular. “What won’t that young one get in her head!”

Meanwhile Ruth was helping Rosa Wildwood all she could, so that the
girl from the South would be able to pass in the necessary
examinations and stand high enough in the class to be promoted.

Housework certainly “told on” Rosa. Bob said “it jest seems t’ take
th’ puckerin’ string all out’n her—an’ she jest draps down like a
flower.”

“We’ll help her, Mr. Wildwood,” Ruth said. “But she really ought to
have a rest.”

“Hi Godfrey!” ejaculated the coal heaver. “I tell her she kin let the
housework go. We don’t have no visitors—savin’ an’ exceptin’ _you_,
ma’am.”

“But she wants to keep the place decent, you see,” Ruth told him. “And
she can scarcely do that and keep up with her studies—now. You see,
she’s so weak.”

“Hi Godfrey!” exclaimed the man again. “Ain’t thar sech a thing as
bein’ a mite _too_ clean?”

But Bob Wildwood had an immense respect for Ruth; likewise he was
grateful because she showed an interest in his last remaining
daughter.

“I tell you, sir,” the oldest Corner House girl said, gravely. “Rosa
needs a change and a rest. And all us girls are going to Pleasant Cove
this summer. Will you let Rosa come down, too, for a while, if I pay
her way and look out for her?”

The man was somewhat disturbed by the question. “Yuh see, Miss,” he
observed, scratching his head thoughtfully, “she’s all I got. I’d
plumb be lost ’ithout Rosa.”

“But only for a week or two.”

“I know. And I wouldn’t want tuh stand in her way. I crossed her
sister too much—that’s what _I_ did. Juniper was a sight more uppity
than Rosa—otherwise she wouldn’t have flew the coop,” said Bob
Wildwood, shaking his head.

Ruth, all tenderness for his bereavement, hastened to say: “Oh, you’ll
find her again, sir. Surely you don’t believe she’s dead?”

“No. If she ain’t come to a _bad_ end, she’s all right somewhar. But
she’d oughter be home with her sister—and with me. Ye see, she was
pretty—an’ smart. No end smart! She went off in bad comp’ny.”

“How do you mean, Mr. Wildwood?” asked Ruth, deeply interested.

“Travelin’ folks. They had a van an’ a couple team o’ mules, an’ the
man sold bitters an’ corn-salve. The woman dressed mighty fine, an’
she took June’s eye.

“We follered ’em a long spell, me an’ Rosa. But we didn’t never ketch
up to ’em. If we had, I’d sure tuck a hand-holt of that medicine man.
He an’ his woman put all the foolishness inter Juniper’s haid.

“An’ Rosa misses her sister like poison, too,” finished Bob Wildwood,
slowly shaking his head.

There seemed to be a mystery connected with the disappearance of
Rosa’s sister, and Ruth Kenway was just as curious as she could be
about it; but she stuck to her subject until Bob Wildwood agreed to
spare his remaining daughter for at least a week’s visit to Pleasant
Cove, while the Corner House girls would be there.




CHAPTER V

OFF FOR THE SEASIDE


The last hours of the school term were busy ones indeed. Even Tess had
her troublesome “’zaminations.” At the study table on the last evening
before her own grade had its closing exercises, Tess propounded the
following:

“Ruthie, what’s a ’scutcheon?”

“Um—um,” said Ruth, far away.

“A _what_, child?” demanded Agnes.

“‘’Scutcheon?’”

“‘Escutcheon,’ she means,” chuckled Neale, who was present as usual at
study hour.

“Well, what _is_ it?” begged Tess, plaintively.

“Why?” demanded Ruth, suddenly waking up. “That’s a hard word for a
small girl, Tess.”

“It says here,” quoth Tess, “that ‘There was a blot upon his
escutcheon.’”

“Oh, yes—sure,” drawled Neale, as Ruth hesitated. “That must mean a
fancy vest, Tess. And he spilled soup on it—sure!”

“Now Neale! how horrid!” admonished Ruth, while Agnes giggled.

“I do think you are all awful mean to me,” wailed Tess. “You don’t
tell me a thing. You’re almost as mean as Trix Severn was to me
to-day. I don’t want to go to her father’s hotel, so there! Have we
got to, Ruthie?”

“What did she do to you, Tess?” demanded Agnes, with a curiosity she
could not quench. For, deep as the chasm had grown between her and her
former chum, she could not ignore Trix.

“She just turned up her nose at me,” complained Tess, “when I went by;
and I heard her say to some girl she was with: ‘There goes one of them
now. They pushed their way into our party, and I s’pose we’ve got to
entertain them.’ Now, _did_ we push our way in, Ruthie?”

Ruth was angry. It was not often that she displayed indignation, so
that when she did so, the other girls—and even Neale—were the more
impressed.

“Of course she was speaking of that wretched invitation she gave us to
stay at her father’s hotel at Pleasant Cove,” said Ruth. “Well!”

“Oh, Ruthie! don’t say you won’t go,” begged Agnes.

“I’ll never go to that Overlook House unless we pay our way—be sure
of that,” declared the angry Ruth.

“But we _are_ going to the shore, Ruthie?” asked Tess.

“Yes.”

“Maybe Pearl Harrod will ask us again,” murmured Agnes, hopefully.

“I guess we can pay our way and be beholden to nobody,” said Ruth,
shortly. “I will hire one of the tents, if nothing else. And we’ll
start the very day after High closes, just as we planned.”

Despite the loss of her “soulmate,” Agnes was pretty cheerful. She was
to graduate from grammar school; and although she was sorry to lose
Miss Georgiana Shipman as a teacher, she was delighted to get out of
“the pigtail classes,” as she rudely termed the lower grades.

“I’m going to do up my hair, Ruthie, whatever you say,” she declared,
“just as soon as I get into high school next fall. I’m old enough to
forget braids and hair-ribbons, I should hope!”

“Not yet, my child, not yet,” laughed Ruth. “Why! there are more girls
in High who wear their hair _down_ than _up_.”

“But I’m so big——”

“You mean, you’d be big,” chuckled Neale, “if you were only rolled
out,” for he was always teasing Agnes about her plumpness.

“Well! I want to celebrate some way,” sighed Agnes. “Can’t we have a
specially nice supper that night?”

“Surely, child,” said her sedate sister. “What do you want?”

“Well!” repeated Agnes, slowly; “you know I’ll never graduate from
Grammar again. Couldn’t we kill some of those nice frying chickens of
yours, Ruthie?”

“Oh, my!” cried Neale. “What have the poor chickens done that they
should be slaughtered to make a Roman holiday?”

“Mr. Smartie!” snapped Agnes. “You be good, or you sha’n’t have any.”

“If that Tom Jonah hadn’t been busy on a certain night, none of us
would have eaten those particular frying chickens,” laughed Neale. “I
wonder if that Gypsy is running yet?”

“He didn’t get the frying chickens in the bag,” said Agnes. “They were
in another coop. We hatched them in January and brought them up by
hand. Say! I don’t believe you know much about natural history, Neale,
anyway.”

“I guess he knows more than Sammy Pinkney does,” Tess said, again
drawn into the conversation. “Teacher asked him to tell us two breeds
of dairy cattle and which gives the most milk. She’d been reading to
us about it out of a book. So Sammy says:

“‘The bull and the cow, Miss Andrews; and the cow gives the most
milk.’”

Dot’s school held its closing exercises one morning, and Tess’ in the
afternoon. Then came the graduation of Agnes and Neale O’Neil from the
grammar school. Ruth was excused from her own classes at High long
enough to attend her sister’s graduation.

Although the plump Corner House girl was no genius, she always stood
well in her classes. Ruth saw to that, for what Agnes did not learn at
school she had to study at home.

So she stood well up in her class, and she _did_ look “too
distractingly pretty,” as Mrs. MacCall declared, when she gave the
last touches to Agnes’ dress before she started for school that last
day. Miss Ann Titus, Milton’s most famous seamstress and
“gossip-in-ordinary,” had outdone herself in making Agnes’ dress. No
girl in her class—not even Trix Severn—was dressed so becomingly.

The envious Trix heard the commendations showered on her former
friend, and her face grew sourer and her temper sharper. She well knew
she had invited the Corner House girls to be her guests at Pleasant
Cove; but she did not want them in her party now. She did not know how
to get out of “the fix,” as she called it in her own mind.

She had intimated to two or three other girls who were going, however,
that Agnes and Ruth had forced the invitation from her in a moment of
weakness. If she had to number them of her party, Miss Trix proposed
to make it just as unpleasant for the Kenway sisters as she could.

High school graduation was on Thursday. On Friday a special through
train was put on by the railroad from Milton to Pleasant Cove. It was
scheduled to leave the former station at ten o’clock.

Luckily Mrs. MacCall had insisted upon having all the trunks and bags
packed the day before, for on this Friday morning the Corner House
girls had little time for anything but saying “good-bye” to their many
friends, both human and dumb.

“Whatever will Tom Jonah think?” cried Tess, hugging the big dog that
had taken up his abode at the Corner House so strangely. “He’ll think
we have run away from him, poor fellow!”

“Oh! _don’t_ you think that, Tom Jonah!” begged Dot, seizing the dog
on the other side. “We all love you so! And we’ll come back to you.”

“You’ll give him just the best care ever, won’t you, Uncle Rufus?”
cried Agnes.

“Sho’ will!” agreed the old colored man.

“_Can’t_ we take him with us, Ruthie?” asked Dot.

Ruth would have been tempted to do just this had she been sure that
they would hire a tent in the colony as soon as they reached Pleasant
Cove. Tom Jonah was just the sort of a protector the Corner House girl
would have chosen under those circumstances.

But Ruth was puzzled. She had not seen Pearl Harrod, and was not sure
whether Pearl had completely filled her uncle’s bungalow with guests
or not. Of one thing Ruth was sure: if they went to the Overlook House
(Mr. Terrence Severn’s hotel), they would pay their board and refuse
to be Trix’s guests.

When the carriage came for them, Tom Jonah stood at the gate and
watched them get in and drive away with a rather depressed air. Dot
and Tess waved their handkerchiefs from the carriage window at him as
long as they could see the big dog.

There was much confusion at the station. Many people whom the girls
knew were on the platform, or in the cars already. Trix Severn was
very much in evidence. The Kenway sisters saw the other girls who were
going to accept Miss Severn’s hospitality in a group at one side, but
they hesitated to join this party.

Trix passed the Kenways twice and did not even look at them. Of
course, she knew the sisters were there, but Ruth believed that the
mean-spirited girl merely wished them to speak to her so that she
could snub them publicly.

“Well, Ruthie Kenway!” exclaimed a voice suddenly behind the Corner
House girls.

It was Pearl Harrod. Pearl was a bright-faced, big girl, jovial and
kind-hearted. “I’ve just been looking for you everywhere,” pursued
Pearl. “Here it is the last minute, and you haven’t told me whether
you and the other girls are going to my uncle’s house or not.”

“Why—if you are sure you want us?” queried Ruth, with a little break
in her voice.

“I should say yes!” exclaimed Pearl. “But I was afraid you had been
asked by some one else.”

Trix turned and looked the four sisters over scornfully. Then she
tossed her head. “Waiting like beggars for an invitation from
_some_body,” she said, loudly enough for all the girls nearby to hear.
“You’d think, if those Corner House girls are as rich as they tell
about, that they’d pay their way.”




CHAPTER VI

ON THE TRAIN


“Don’t you mind what that mean thing says,” whispered Pearl Harrod,
quickly.

She had seen Ruth flush hotly and the tears spring to Agnes’ eyes when
Trix Severn had spoken so ill-naturedly. The younger Corner House
girls did not hear, but Ruth and Agnes were hurt to the quick.

“You are very, very kind, Pearl,” said Ruth. “But we had thought of
going to the tent colony——”

“Didn’t Trix Severn ask you to her place?” demanded Pearl, hotly. “I
_know_ she did. And now she insults you. If she hadn’t asked you
first, and seemed so thick with your sister, Ruth, I would have
insisted long ago that you all come to uncle’s bungalow. There’s
plenty of room, for my aunt and the girls won’t be down for a
fortnight.”

“But, Pearl——”

“I’ll be mad if you don’t agree—now I know that Trix has released
you, Ruth Kenway,” cried the good-hearted girl. “Now, don’t let’s say
another word about it.”

“Oh, don’t be angry!” begged Ruth. “But won’t it look as though we
_were_ begging our way—as Trix says?”

“Pooh! who cares for Trix Severn?”

“You—you are very kind,” said Ruth, yielding at length.

“Then you come on. Hey, girls!” she shouted, running after her own
particular friends who were climbing aboard the rear car. “I’ve gotten
them to promise. The Corner House girls are going with us—for two
weeks, anyway.”

At once the other girls addressed cheered and gathered the four
Kenways into their group, with great rejoicing. The sting of Trix
Severn’s unkindness was forgotten.

Mr. Howbridge, their guardian, came to the station to see them off,
and shook hands with Ruth through the window of the car. When the
train actually moved away, Neale O’Neil was there in the crowd,
swinging his cap and wishing them heaps of fun. Neale expected to go
to Pleasant Cove himself, later in the season.

This last car of the special train was a day coach; but the
light-hearted girls did not mind the lack of conveniences and comforts
to be obtained in the chair cars. The train was supposed to arrive at
Pleasant Cove by three o’clock, and a five hour ride on a hot June day
was only “fun” for the Corner House girls and their friends.

Ruth first of all got the brakeman to turn over a seat so that she and
her three sisters could sit facing each other. Mrs. MacCall had put
them up a nice hamper of luncheon and the older girl knew this would
be better enjoyed if the seats were thus arranged.

Of course, there was the usual desire of some of the travelers to have
windows open while others wished them closed. Cinders and dust flew in
by the peck if the former arrangement prevailed, while the heat was
intense if the sashes were down.

Tess and Dot were little disturbed by these physical ills. But they
had their own worries. Dot, who had insisted on carrying the
Alice-doll in her arms, was troubled mightily to remember whether she
had packed the whole of the doll’s trousseau (this was supposed to be
a wedding journey for the Alice-doll—a wedding journey in which the
bridegroom had no part); while Tess wondered what would happen to Tom
Jonah and Sandyface’s young family while they were all gone from the
old Corner House.

“I feel condemned—I do, indeed, Dot,” sighed Tess. “We ought, at
least, to have named those four kittens before we left. They’ll be
awfully old before the christening—if we don’t come back at the end
of our first two weeks.”

“What could happen to them?” demanded Dot.

“Why—croup—or measles—or chicken-pox. They’re only babies, you
know. And if one should die,” added Tess, warmly, “we wouldn’t even
know what name to put on its gravestone!”

“My! lots of things can happen in two weeks, I s’pose,” agreed Dot.
“Do you think we ought to stay away from home so long?”

“I guess we’ll have to if Ruth and Aggie stay,” said Tess. “But I
shall worry.”

Meanwhile Agnes, who sat with her back to the engine beside Ruth, had
become interested in a couple sitting together not far down the car.
They were strangers—and strangely dressed, as well.

“Oh, Ruth!” Agnes exclaimed, under her breath, “they look like
Gypsies.”

“If they are, they are much better dressed than any Gypsies we ever
saw before,” observed her sister.

“But how gay!”

This comment was just enough. The older one had shocking taste in
millinery. She wore, too, long, pendant ear-rings and her fingers were
covered with gaudy looking jewels. Her garments were rich in texture,
but oddly made, and the contrasts in color were, as Agnes whispered,
“fierce!”

“That girl with her is handsome, just the same,” Ruth declared.

“Oh! isn’t she!” whispered the enthusiastic Agnes. “A perfectly
stunning brunette.”

If she were a Gypsy girl she was a very beautiful one. Her features
were lovely and her complexion brilliant. When she smiled she flashed
two rows of perfect teeth upon the beholder. She might have been a
year or two older than Ruth.

“I don’t know—somehow—she reminds me of somebody,” murmured the
latter.

“Who?”

“The girl.”

“She reminds me of that chicken-thief Tom Jonah treed on the henhouse
roof,” chuckled Agnes.

“Oh!” exclaimed Ruth; “all Gypsies can’t be alike.”

“Humph! you never heard a good word said for them,” sniffed Agnes.

“But that doesn’t prove there are not good ones. They are a wandering
people and have no particular trade or standing in any community.
Naturally they have a lot of crimes laid upon their shoulders that
they never commit,” said the just Ruth.

“That was one of them that tried to steal your hens, just the same,”
said Agnes.

“I suppose so,” admitted her sister. “But surely _these_ two cannot
belong to the same kind of Gypsies. See how richly they are dressed.”

“I guess that doesn’t make any difference,” said Agnes. “They are all
cut off the same piece of goods,” and immediately she lost interest in
the strange couple when Lucy Poole came up the aisle to speak to her.

Ruth had the gaily dressed woman and her companion on her mind a good
deal. She often looked at them when they did not notice her. The woman
must have been forty, but was straight, lithe, and of good figure. She
sat on the outer end of the seat, having the girl between her and the
window.

The latter seemed more and more familiar in appearance to Ruth as she
looked, yet the Corner House girl could not say whom the girl looked
like.

The latter scarcely spoke to her companion. Indeed, she kept her face
toward the window for the most part, and seemed to be in a sullen
mood. She had smiled once at Dot and the Alice-doll, and that was the
only time Ruth had seen the dark, beautiful face with an attractive
expression upon it.

The woman seemed talkative enough, but what language she jabbered to
her companion the Corner House girl could not tell. She frequently
leaned toward the dark girl, her bejeweled fingers seizing the sleeve
of her waist, and her speech was both emphatic and loud.

The rattle of the train drowned, however, most of the woman’s words.
Ruth arose and went the length of the car for a drink, just for the
purpose of overhearing the strange speech of the Gypsy (if such the
woman was) for she was sure the language was not English.

She heard nothing intelligible. Ruth folded a cup, filled it at the
ice-water tank, and brought it back for the children. Pearl Harrod was
sitting directly behind the two strangers, in a seat with Carrie
Poole.

“Oh, I say, Ruth!” Pearl said, “is it a fact that Rosa Wildwood is
coming down to the Cove next week?”

Ruth turned to answer. As she did so the girl in the seat with the
Gypsy sprang to her feet, her face transfigured with amazement, or
alarm—Ruth did not know which. The woman grabbed her by the elbow and
pulled her back into the seat, saying something of a threatening
nature to her companion.

In her excitement the woman knocked the cup of water from Ruth’s hand.
She turned to apologize, and Ruth, looking over her head, saw the
dark-skinned girl sitting back in her corner quite colorless and
broken. The Corner House girl was sure, too, that the strange girl’s
lips formed the name “Rosa Wildwood”—but she made no sound.

“It is all right,” Ruth assured the Gypsy woman. “No harm done.”

“I am the ver’ awkward one—eh?” repeated the woman, with a hard
smile.

“It does not matter,” said Ruth. “I can get another cup of water.”

She returned to do so. All the while she was wondering what the
incident meant. It was not merely a chance happening, she was sure.
Something about the name of her schoolmate, Rosa Wildwood, had
frightened the beautiful girl who was evidently in the Gypsy woman’s
care.

Ruth grew quite excited as she drew another cup of water, and she
swiftly planned to discover the mystery, as she started up the aisle
of the coach a second time.




CHAPTER VII

SOMETHING AHEAD


Pearl Harrod was now busily talking with Carrie Poole again; she had
probably forgotten about Rosa Wildwood for the time being. But Ruth
stopped at her seat—the seat directly behind that occupied by the two
strangers.

“You asked about Rosa, Pearl?” said Ruth, speaking loudly enough, she
was sure, for the girl in front to hear.

“Oh, hello! don’t spill that water again, Ruthie,” laughed Pearl.
“Yes. I asked if she were coming down to the Cove!”

“Yes. Rosa Wildwood expects to come next week. I am going to find her
a boarding place.”

Ruth spoke very distinctly, and she kept her eyes fastened upon the
back of the strange girl’s head. But the latter gave no sign of having
heard—at least, she appeared not to be interested in the name which
had before so startled her.

“I don’t see how the poor girl can afford it,” Carrie Poole said, not
unkindly. “They say she and her father are very poor.”

“Mr. Bob Wildwood works regularly. He doesn’t drink any more,” Ruth
explained, intentionally speaking so that those in the forward seat
could hear if they wished to listen.

“Rosa is an awfully sweet girl,” said Carrie.

“I love that little Southern drawl of hers!” cried Pearl. “She says
‘Ah reckon so’ in just the _cunningest_ way!”

“She is very frail,” Ruth continued, clearly. “I was afraid she would
break down before the school term closed. Now it has been arranged for
her to stay at Pleasant Cove until she gains strength. Dr. Forsythe
says it will do her a world of good.”

“We’ll give her a good time, all right,” declared Pearl. “Wish we
could have her with us——”

“Not at the bungalow,” said Ruth. “Nor at the hotel. We want a quiet
place for her. I shall find it.”

Not a sign did the girl in front give that she heard any of this
conversation. Yet Ruth believed there was a curious intentness in her
manner—she held her head very still as though she were secretly
listening, while apparently giving all her attention to what the train
passed.

“What does your uncle call his bungalow—where we shall stop?” asked
Ruth of Pearl.

“Why, the Spoondrift—don’t you remember? It’s at this end of the
cove, near the river, and we have bathing rights on the shore. It’s a
fine place. You’ll _love_ it, Ruth Kenway.”

“I expect to,” said Ruth, seriously. “And you were very kind to ask me
to stay two whole weeks with you,” and Ruth passed on.

She had intentionally said enough so that, if the strange girl _were_
listening, she would learn just where Ruth could be found at Pleasant
Cove.

For the Corner House girl felt that the dark beauty with the Gypsy
woman held some keen interest in Rosa Wildwood. Of course—right at
the start—the story of Rosa’s lost sister, June, had come into Ruth’s
mind.

Yet, as the Corner House girl looked at the stranger, she could not
say truthfully that it was Rosa of whom _this_ girl reminded her. Ruth
conjured before her mind’s eye the fair, delicate beauty of Bob
Wildwood’s daughter; the two girls possessed no feature in common—and
in complexion they were, of course, diametrically opposed.

This girl was dark enough and savage enough looking to be a Gypsy.
Ruth scouted the idea that she might be Juniper Wildwood, who had run
away with a traveling “medicine man” and his wife.

Nevertheless, Ruth believed that the strange girl must know something
about the lost June Wildwood. She had been startled when Rosa’s name
was mentioned. The Corner House girl was deeply interested in the
affair; but at present she did not want to take anybody into her
confidence about it—not even Agnes.

The girls did not remain quietly in their seats, by any manner of
means. First there was a crowd blocking the aisle in one part of the
car, then in another. Agnes was in and out of her seat half a dozen
times between stations. The heat and dust was ignored as the girls
shouted pleasantries back and forth; the air was vibrant with
laughter.

“I’m just as anxious to see the ocean as I can be,” declared Lucy
Poole who, like the Corner House girls, had never been to Pleasant
Cove before.

“Oh, dear me!” scoffed her cousin Carrie. “It’s only a big, big pond!
Our frog pond at home looks like a piece of the ocean—when it’s
calm.”

The others laughed and Pearl said: “Guess Lucy wants to see Old Ocean
in its might, eh? Big storm, whales, great ships——”

“A sea serpent!” cried Agnes.

“Of course—if there is such a thing,” admitted Lucy. “A sea serpent
must be an awfully interesting sight.”

“There aren’t any more,” said Pearl. “Father Neptune’s all out of
stock.”

“I guess the sea serpent is something like the _snakes_ alcoholic
victims think they see,” proposed Carrie.

“Oh, no,” proclaimed Agnes. “Here’s what I read about the sea serpent:

    “‘The old sea serpent used to rave
      And fiercely roam about;
    He hit a prohibition wave,
      And that’s what knocked him out.’”

“‘Perils of the Deep!’” laughed Ruth. “But even if we don’t see
serpents in the ocean, I expect we’ll have plenty of adventures down
there at the shore.”

Which prophecy was strangely fulfilled.

The train reached Bloomingsburg about one o’clock, and was immediately
shifted to the single-tracked branch line that connected that small
city with Pleasant Cove. The speed of the train after leaving
Bloomingsburg was not great, for it was often held up for trains
coming from the shore to pass.

The adult passengers grew impatient and wearied. There were many
complaints, and the babies began to fret and cry. But our friends in
the last coach remained in a jolly and—for the most part—kindly
mood.

Trix Severn had taken her crowd into a forward coach. Her father
owning one of the big hotels at the Cove, the railroad company had
presented him with a sheaf of chair coupons. So, as Pearl Harrod
laughingly said, “Trix’s party was as swell as a wet sponge.”

“I don’t suppose any of that crowd at the Overlook House will talk to
_us_,” said Pearl. “Just the same, I guess I can show you girls a good
time at Spoondrift. Uncle always lets us do just as we like. He’s the
_dearest_ man.”

The train rattled on and on. The alternate pine forests and swamp
lands seemed interminable. Now and then they went through a cut, the
railroad bisecting a hickory ridge.

But soon there was a change in the air. When the cinders and dust did
not sift into the windows, there was a smell of salt marsh. The air
seemed suddenly cleaner. At one station where they stopped, a salt
creek came in, and there was a dock, and boats, and barrels of clams
and fish piled on the platform ready for the next up-train.

“Regular maritime smell——whew!” sighed Carrie Poole, holding her
nose delicately.

“Oh! The _whole_ of Pleasant Cove doesn’t smell like this, does it?”
demanded her cousin.

“Only the old part of it—the old village.”

“Well! that’s lucky,” said Lucy. “If this odor prevailed I should say
the place ought to be called _Un_-pleasant Cove.”

“How far are we from the jumping-off place?” demanded Agnes. “I’d like
to get out and run.”

Pearl stooped to look out under one of the drawn shades. “Why!” she
said, “there are only two more stops before we reach the Cove station.
It’s a winding way the railroad follows. But if we got off about here
and went right through those woods yonder, we’d reach the Spoondrift
bungalow in an hour. I’ve walked over here to Jumpertown many a time.”

“Jumpertown?”

“Yes. That’s what they called it before the real estate speculators
gave it the fancy name of ‘Ridgedale Station.’”

At that moment the train suddenly slowed down. The brakes grated upon
the wheels and everybody clung to the seats for support. One of the
brakemen ran through from the front and the girls clamored to know the
cause of the stoppage.

“Bridge down up front,” said the railroad employee. “Tide rose last
night and loosened the supports. We’ve got to wait.”

“Oh, dear me!” was the general wail. When they could get hold of the
conductor the girls demanded to know the length of time they would be
delayed.

“Can’t tell you, young ladies,” declared the man of the punch.
“There’s a repair gang at work on it now.”

“An hour?” demanded Pearl Harrod.

“Oh, longer than that,” the conductor assured her.

“But what shall we do? We want to get to the bungalow and air the
bedclothes, and all that, before dark,” she cried.

“Guess you’ll have to walk, then,” said the conductor, laughing, and
went away.

“That’s just what we’ll do,” Pearl said to her friends. “Can the
children walk three miles, Ruth?”

“Surely they can!” Agnes cried. “If they can’t, we’ll carry them.”

Ruth was doubtful of the wisdom of the move, but her opinion was not
asked.

“Come on! let’s get out quietly. We’ll fool all these other folks,”
said Pearl. “We’ll get to Pleasant Cove long before they do.”




CHAPTER VIII

THE GYPSY CAMP


There were two things that encouraged Ruth Kenway, the oldest Corner
House girl, to accompany Pearl Harrod’s party through the woods
without objection. Pearl told her that when they reached the highway
on the other side of the timber in all probability they would be
overtaken by an auto-bus that ran four times a day between a station
on a rival railroad line and the Cove.

This was one thing. The other reason for Ruth’s leaving the train with
her sisters, and without objection, was the fact that the strangely
dressed woman and the pretty, dark girl had left it already.

When the train first stopped and the brakeman announced the accident
ahead, the woman had spoken to the girl and they both had risen and
left the car. Perhaps nobody had noticed them but Ruth. The strange
girl had not looked at Ruth when she passed her, but the woman had
bowed and smiled in a cat-like fashion.

Pearl said they would follow a path through the timber to the road;
and she pointed out the direction through the window. Ruth saw the
woman and girl strike into this very path and disappear.

So curiosity, too, led the oldest Corner House girl to agree to
Pearl’s plan. The party of ten girls, including Ruth, Agnes, Tess and
Dot Kenway, slipped out of the car without being questioned by any of
the older people there. Nobody observed them enter the cool and
fragrant woods. Chattering and laughing, they were quickly in the
shadowy depths and out of sight of the hot train.

“Oh, isn’t this heavenly!” cried Agnes, tossing up her hat by the
ribbons that were supposed to tie it under her plump chin.

The green tunnel of the wood-path stretched a long way before them. It
was paved with pine needles and last-year’s oak leaves.

Ruth looked sharply ahead, but did not see either the woman or the
girl, in whom she was so much interested. Either they had gone on very
rapidly, or had turned aside into the wood.

Dot had made no complaint upon being forced to leave the train; but
she clung very tightly now to the Alice-doll, and finally ventured to
ask Tess:

“What—what do you think is the chance for _bears_ in this wood, Tess?
Don’t you think there may be some?”

“Bears? Whoever heard the like? Of course not, child,” said Tess, in
her most elder-sisterly way. “What gave you such an idea as that?”

“Well—it’s a strange woods, Tess. We aren’t really acquainted here.”

“But Pearl is,” declared Tess, stoutly.

“I don’t care. I’d rather have Tom Jonah with us. Suppose a bear
should jump out and grab Alice?” and she hugged the doll all the
closer in her arms. For her own safety she evidently was not anxious.

The girls, after their ride in the train, were like young colts let
loose in a paddock. They sang and laughed and capered; and when they
came to a softly carpeted hollow, Pearl Harrod led the way and rolled
down the slope, instead of walking down in a “decorous manner, as high
school young ladies should,” quoth Carrie.

“If our dear, _de-ar_ teachers should see us now!” gasped Pearl
sitting up at the foot of the slide, with a peck of pine needles in
her hair and her frock all tousled.

Their only baggage was the lunch baskets and boxes. All other of their
personal possessions were on the train, in the baggage car. But the
remains of the luncheons came in very nicely. Before they had gone a
mile through the wood they were all loudly proclaiming their hunger.

So they found a spring, and camped about it, eating the remainder of
the lunches to the very last crumb. And such a hilarious “feed” as it
was!

Ruth forgot all about the Gypsy woman and the girl who had so puzzled
her by her actions. The rest by the spring refreshed even Dot. She was
plucky, if she _was_ little; and she made no complaint at all about
the long walk through the stretch of timber.

The party did not hurry after that rest. It was still early in the
afternoon and Pearl, referring to her watch, said they would surely
catch the auto-stage that passed on the main road about four o’clock.

“You see, there are no servants at the bungalow yet,” Pearl explained.
“Uncle has been taking his meals at one of the small boarding-houses
nearby, that opens early. He is a great fisherman, and always goes
down early and ‘roughs it’ at the bungalow until my aunt comes down.

“But she thought we girls would be able to get on all right—with
Uncle Phil to give us a hand if we need him. We’ll have to air
bedclothes, and get in groceries, and otherwise start housekeeping
to-night.”

“Why! it will be great fun,” Ruth said. “Just like playing house
together.”

“Say!” cried Agnes. “We want more than ‘play-house’ food to eat—now I
warn you! No sweet crackers and ‘cambric tea’ for mine, if you
please!”

“Oh! if I ask him,” said Pearl, laughing, “I know Uncle Phil will take
us to his boarding-house to supper to-night—if we get there late. But
I want to show him what ten girls can do toward housekeeping.”

“There’ll be plenty of cooks to spoil the broth,” sighed Agnes. “Did
you ever see _me_ fry an egg?”

Ruth began to laugh. The single occasion when Agnes had tried her hand
at the breakfast eggs was a day marked for remembrance at the old
Corner House.

“What can you do to a defenseless egg, Aggie?” Lucy Poole demanded.

“Plenty!” declared Agnes, shaking her head. “When I get through with
an egg, a lump of butter, and a frying-pan, there is left a residue of
charred ‘what is it?’ in the bottom of the pan, an odor of burned
grease in the kitchen—and me in hysterics! It was an awful occasion
when I tackled that egg. I’ve not felt just right about approaching an
egg since that never-to-be-forgotten day.”

“I was left home to cook for my father, once,” said Carrie Poole,
seriously, “and he asked to have boiled rice for supper. Mother never
let me cook much, and I didn’t know a thing about _rice_.

“But I saw the grains were awfully small, and I knew my father liked a
great, heaping bowlful when he had it, so I told the grocery boy to
bring two pounds, and I tried to cook it all.”

A general laugh hailed this announcement. Agnes asked: “What happened,
Carrie? I don’t know anything about rice myself—’cepting that it’s
good in cakes and you throw it after brides for luck—and—and
Chinamen live on it.”

“Wait!” urged Carrie, solemnly. “It’s nothing to laugh at. I began
cooking it in a four quart saucepan, so as to give it plenty of room;
and when father came in just before supper time, I had the whole top
of our big range covered with pots and pans into which I had dipped
the overflow of that two pounds of rice!

“Oh, yes, I had!” said Carrie, warmly, while the others screamed with
laughter. “And I had gotten so excited by that time that I begged
father to go out to the washhouse and bring in the big clothes boiler,
so’s to see if I could keep the stuff from running over onto the
stove.

“You never saw such a mess,” concluded Carrie, shaking her head. “And
we had to eat rice for a week!”

It was just here that Agnes spied something far ahead beside the
woodspath.

“Oh!” she cried, “are we in sight of the tent colony you tell about,
so soon?”

“Nonsense!” exclaimed Pearl Harrod. “We’re nowhere near the river.”

“But there’s a tent!” exclaimed Agnes, earnestly.

“And I see the top of another,” said Lucy Poole.

“Dirty brown things, both of them. Look more like Indian wigwams,”
announced Ann Presby.

“My goodness, girls! there are the Gypsies Uncle Phil wrote about,”
said Pearl, in some excitement. “Let’s get our fortunes told.”

“Oh, dear me,” said Ruth, rather worriedly. “I don’t just _like_
Gypsies.”

“Oh, you haven’t got to hug and kiss them!” laughed Pearl. “Come on!
they’re lots of fun.”

But when the party of girls drew nearer to the Gypsy camp, this
particular tribe of Nomads did not appear to be “lots of fun,” after
all.

In the first place, the tents—as Ann had said—were very shabby and
dirty. The two covered wagons were dilapidated, too. Gypsies usually
have good horses, but those the girls saw feeding in the little glade
were mere “crowbaits.”

Several low-browed, roughly dressed men sat in a group on the grass
playing cards. They were smoking, and one was tipping a black bottle
to his lips just as the girls from Milton came near.

“Let’s hurry right by, Pearl!” begged Ruth.

Pearl, however, was not as observant as the Corner House girl. She
failed to see danger in the situation, or in the looks the disturbed
men cast upon the unprotected party of girls. As several of the
fellows rose, Pearl called to them:

“Where’s your Pythoness? Where is the Queen of the Gypsies? We want
our fortunes told.”

One man—a tall fellow with a scarred face—turned and shouted
something in a strange tongue at the tents. Ruth recognized the
language in which the woman had talked to the dark-faced girl on the
train.

And then, the next moment, Ruth caught sight of the face of the very
woman in question, peering from between the flaps of one of the dingy
tents.




CHAPTER IX

THE SPOONDRIFT BUNGALOW


“I don’t think these are very nice looking men, do you, Tess?” Dot
seriously asked her sister as the party halted before the Gypsy camp.

“Why, Dot!” gasped Tess. “That man _there_ is the very fellow who
tried to steal Ruth’s chickens!”

“Oh—o-o!”

“Yes, he is,” whispered the amazed Tess. “He’s the young man Tom Jonah
chased up on to the henhouse roof.”

“Well,” said the philosophical Dot, “he can’t steal our chickens
_here_.”

“Just the same I wish Tom Jonah was here with us. I—I’d feel better
about meeting him,” confessed Tess.

The other girls did not hear this conversation between the two
youngest Kenways. Ruth and Agnes, however, were really troubled by the
meeting with the Gypsies; the former was, in addition, suspicious of
the woman who had been on the train with them.

This strange woman did not come out of the tent. Indeed, almost at
once she disappeared, dropping the curtain. She did not wish to be
observed by the girls from Milton.

“Oh, come on!” cried the reckless Pearl. “They’ll only ask us a dime
each. ‘Cross their palms with silver,’ you know. And they do tell the
_queerest_ things sometimes.”

“I don’t believe we’d better stop this afternoon, Pearl,” ventured
Ruth, as one of the rough fellows drew nearer to the girls.

“Let the little ladies wait but a short time,” said this man. “They
will have revealed to them all they wish to know.”

He had an ugly leer, and had Pearl looked at him she would have been
frightened by his expression. But she was searching her chain-purse
for dimes. It did not look to Ruth Kenway as though that purse would
last long in the company of these evil fellows.

Now the same tent flap was pushed aside again and into the open
hobbled an old crone. She seemed to be a toothless creature, and
leaned upon a crutch. Gray strands of coarse hair straggled over her
wrinkled forehead. She had a hump on her back—or seemed to have, for
she wore a long cloak, the bedraggled tail of which touched the
ground.

She hobbled across the lawn toward the girls. Ruth watched her closely
for, it seemed, she came more hurriedly than seemed necessary.

A dog—one of the mongrels that infested the camp—ran at her, and the
old crone struck at the creature with her crutch; he ran away yelping.
She was plainly more vigorous of arm than one would have believed from
her decrepit appearance.

The grinning fellows separated as the old hag came forward. She did
not speak to them, but she was muttering to herself.

“Incantations!” whispered Pearl. “Isn’t she enough to give you the
delicious shudders? Oh!”

Pearl was evidently enjoying the adventure to the full, but some of
the girls besides Ruth and Agnes, did not feel so very pleasant. When
one of the fellows took hold of Carrie Poole’s wrist-watch with a
grimy finger and thumb, she screamed.

“Don’t fear, little lady,” said the tall, grim man, and he struck the
officious fellow with his elbow in the ribs. “He means nothing
harmful. Here is Zaliska, the Queen of the Romany. She is very old and
very wise. She will tell you much for a silver shilling; but she will
tell you more for two-bits.”

“He means a quarter,” said Pearl, explaining. “But a quarter’s too
much. Show her your palms, girls. This is my treat. I have ten dimes.”

The tall man had motioned his fellows back, but they were arranged
around the party of girls in such a way that, no matter which way they
turned, one of the ruffians was right before them!

“Oh, Ruth! I am frightened!” whispered Agnes in her sister’s ear.

“Sh! don’t scare the children,” Ruth said, her first thought for Tess
and Dot.

The old crone hobbled directly to Ruth and put out a brown claw. Ruth
extended her own right hand tremblingly. The hag was mumbling
something or other, but Ruth could not hear what she said at first,
the other girls were chattering so.

Then she noticed that the grip of the old Gypsy was a firm one. The
back of her hand seemed wrinkled and puckered; but suddenly Ruth knew
that this was the effect of grease paint!

This was a made-up old woman—not a real old woman, at all!

The discovery frightened the Corner House girl almost as much as the
rough men frightened her. “Zaliska” was a disguised creature.

She clung to Ruth’s hand firmly when the girl would have pulled it
away, and now Ruth heard her hiss:

“Get you away from this place. Get you away with your friends—quick.
And do not come back at all.”

Ruth was shaking with hysterical terror. The creature clung to her
hand and mumbled this warning over and over again.

“What’s she telling you, Ruth?” demanded the hilarious Pearl.

“Trouble! trouble!” mumbled the supposed fortune-teller, shaking her
head, but accepting the next girl’s dime.

Ruth whispered swiftly to Pearl: “Oh! let us get out of here. These
men mean to rob us—I am sure.”

“They would not dare,” began the startled Pearl.

Just then there was a creaking of heavy wheels, and a voice shouting
to oxen. The Gypsies glanced swiftly and covertly at one another,
falling back farther from the vicinity of the girls.

Indeed, several of them returned to the card game. The fortune-teller
mumbled her foolish prophecies quickly. Into the glade, along a
wood-path from the thicker timber, came two spans of oxen dragging
three great logs. A pleasant-faced young man swung the ox-goad and
spoke cheerily to the slow-moving, ponderous animals.

“Let’s go at once, Pearl!” begged Ruth. “We’ll keep close to this
lumberman. Dot and Tess can ride on the logs.”

“Come on, girls! I think this old woman is a faker,” cried Pearl. “She
can’t even tell me whether I’m going to marry a blond man, or a
brunette!”

“Don’t go yet, little ladies,” said the tall man, suavely. “Zaliska
can tell you much——”

“Let’s go, girls!” cried Carrie Poole, snatching her hand away from
the supposed old woman.

Ruth and Agnes had already seized their sisters and were hurrying them
toward the lumberman.

“Whoa, Buck! Whoa, Bright!” shouted the teamster, cracking the
whiplash before the leading span of oxen. “Sh-h! Steady. What’s the
matter, girls?”

“Won’t you take us to the main road where we can get the stage for
Pleasant Cove?” cried Ruth.

“Sure, Miss. Going right there. Want to ride?”

“Oh, yes, sir!” cried the Corner House girls.

“That will be great fun!” shouted some of the others. “Come on!”

They clambered all over the logs, that were chained together and swung
from the axle of the rear pair of wheels. The Gypsies began gathering
around and some of them muttered threateningly, but the lumberman
cracked his whip and the oxen started easily.

“Cling on, girls!” advised the driver. “No skylarking up there. Soon
have you out to the pike road. And you want to keep away from that
Gypsy camp. They are a tough lot—very different from the crowd that
camped there last year and the year before. We farmers are getting
about ready to run them out, now I tell ye!”

Ruth said nothing—not even to Agnes—about what she had discovered.
She had penetrated “Queen Zaliska’s” disguise. She believed that the
supposed old crone was the handsome, dark girl whom she had observed
so narrowly on the train.

Perhaps nobody but Ruth, of the party of ten girls, really understood
that they had been in peril from the Gypsies. _She_ believed that, had
they not gotten away from the camp as they had, the men would have
robbed them.

The Gypsies were afraid of the husky lumberman, and they did not
follow the girls. Once on the highway, Pearl declared the auto-stage
would be along in ten minutes or so, and they bade the lumberman
good-bye with a feeling of perfect safety.

The Gypsies had not dared follow the party. Soon the stage came along,
and for ten cents each the girls rode into Pleasant Cove. There were
only a few other passengers, and the party from Milton sat on top and
had a lot of fun.

Pearl pointed out the byroad that led down to the river beach where
the tent colony was set up, but the stage went right past Spoondrift
bungalow, and the girls got down and charged that dwelling “like a
horde of Huns,” Agnes declared.

Uncle Phillip Harrod was at home, and welcomed them kindly. “Help
yourselves, girls, and go as far as you like,” he said, waving both
hands, and retired to a corner of the piazza with his book and a pipe.

The girls took him at his word. They were very busy till nightfall.
Then, however, everything was ready for their occupancy of the
bungalow, and supper was cooking on the kerosene range.

They had forgotten the Gypsies—all but Ruth. She was bound to be
puzzled by the disguised “queen” and wondered secretly what the
masquerade meant, and who the beautiful girl was who posed as
“Zaliska”?




CHAPTER X

SOME EXCITEMENT


“But _why_ ‘Spoondrift’?” demanded Lucy. “What does it mean?”

“‘Spoondrift’ is the spray from the tops of the waves,” explained
Pearl. “We think the name is awfully pretty.”

“And so is the bungalow—and the Cove,” sighed Ruth.

“And we’re going to have a scrumptious time here!” declared Agnes.

Tess and Dot were frankly sleepy, and Lucy begged the privilege of
seeing them to bed.

“That’s real kind of you, I’m sure, Lute,” said Agnes.

“Don’t you praise her,” sniffed Carrie. “I know Lute. She’s sleepy,
herself. You won’t see her downstairs again to-night.”

“I don’t care,” yawned Lucy Poole, following Tess and Dot. “I sleep so
slowly that it takes a long time for me to get a good night’s rest.”

“Well! of all things!” ejaculated Carrie, as her cousin departed,
following the two smaller girls. “What do you know about _that_?”

“Almost as stupid as the inhabitants of London,” chuckled Agnes.

“What do you mean by that, Ag?” demanded Ann Presby. “The people of
London aren’t any more stupid than those of other cities, are they?”

“I don’t know,” returned Agnes; “but the book says ‘the population of
London is very dense.’”

“Fine! fine!” cried Carrie Poole, laughing. “Oh! these ‘literal’ folk.
You know, my Grandfather Poole has an awfully bald head. He was
telling us once that in some famous battle of the Civil War in which
he took part, his head was grazed by a bullet. My little brother Jimmy
stared at his head thoughtfully for a minute, and then he said:

“‘My, Grandpa, there’s not much grazing up there now, is there?’”

These stories began the evening. Everybody had some story or joke to
relate, and finally the girls began to guess riddles. Somebody
propounded the old one about the wind: “What is it that goes all
around the house and yet makes no tracks?” and Agnes had a new answer
for it:

“Germs!” she shouted. “You know, Miss Georgiana gave us a lecture
about them, and I bet we’re just surrounded by deadly bacilli right
now.”

“Those aren’t germs—they’re mosquitos, Ag!” laughed Pearl, slapping
vigorously at one of the pests. “Pleasant Cove isn’t entirely free
from them.”

“And they are presenting their bills pretty lively, too,” yawned Ruth.
“The bedrooms are screened. I believe we’d all better seek the haven
of bed unless we want to be splotchy to-morrow from mosquito bites.”

In the morning the older girls divided the housework between them, and
so got it all done in short order. The baggage had come up from the
station the evening before, and they unpacked.

Then they set forth to explore the fishing port, as well as the more
modern part of Pleasant Cove.

As they brisked along the walk past Mr. Terrence Severn’s Overlook
House, they spied Trix and her party on the big veranda. The girls
hailed each other back and forth; only Trix and the Corner House girls
did not speak.

“We can’t speak to her if she won’t speak to us,” said Ruth to Agnes.
“Now, never you mind, Aggie. She’ll get over her tantrum in time.”

The party from Spoondrift bungalow got back in season to get luncheon;
after which they rested and then bathed. It was the Corner House
girls’ first experience of salt water bathing and they all enjoyed
it—even Dot.

“It _does_ make you suck in your breath awfully hard when the waves
lap upon you,” she confessed. “But there was the Alice-doll sitting on
the shore watching me, and so I couldn’t let her see that I was
_afraid_!”

Ruth, more than the other girls, aided Pearl in looking after
housekeeping affairs. It was she who discovered the broken lamp in the
front hall.

The bungalow was lighted by oil-lamps, and they used candles in the
bed chambers; while there was a marvelous “blue-flame” kerosene range
in the kitchen.

Not all of the girls understood the handling of kerosene lamps, and
Pearl told a funny story about her own little sister who had never
seen any lights but gas or electric.

“When she came down here to Uncle Phil’s bungalow for the first time,
she was all excited about the lamps. She told mamma that ‘Uncle Phil
had his ’lectricity in a lamp right on the supper table. It’s a queer
kind of a light, for they fill it with water out of a can.’”

The hanging lamp in the front hall was set inside a melon-shaped
globe. Finding that, as Ruth pointed out, it could not be used, Pearl
made another trip to the village before teatime and in the local
“department store” bought another lamp.

“I am afraid you ought not to use that lamp, Pearl,” Ruth said, when
she saw that the chimney was not tall enough to stick out of the top
of the globe.

“Pooh! why not? Guess it’s just as good as the old chimney was,” said
Pearl.

“Seems to me Mrs. MacCall says that chimneys should always be tall
enough to come up through the globe. I don’t know just why——”

“Oh, pshaw!” interrupted Pearl. “It’s all right, I fancy.”

Neither girl had recourse to “applied physics.” Had she done so she
could easily have discovered just _why_ it was unwise to use a lamp
with a short chimney inside such a shaped globe as that hanging in
chains in the front hall of the bungalow.

Ruth forgot the matter. It was Pearl herself who lit the hall lamp
that evening. As before, they sat on the porch and played games and
sang or told stories, all the long, bright evening.

Tess and Dot had gone to bed at half after eight. It was an hour later
that Lucy suddenly said:

“I smell smoke.”

“It isn’t Mr. Harrod,” said Ann. “He’s gone down to the Casino.”

“It isn’t tobacco smoke I smell,” declared Lucy, springing up.

“Oh, Lute!” shrieked Agnes. “Look at the door!”

A cloud of black, thick smoke was belching out of the front hall upon
the veranda. One of the other girls shrieked “Fire!”

Those next few minutes were terribly exciting for all hands at the
Spoondrift bungalow. A single glance into the hall showed Ruth Kenway
that the hanging lamp had burst, and the place was all ablaze.

There was but one stairway, and the children were in one of the
low-ceilinged rooms above. Tess and Dot could only be reached by
climbing up the long, sloping roof of the bungalow, and getting in at
the chamber window.

While some of the girls ran for water—which was useless in the
quantity they could bring from the kitchen tap in pots and pans—and
others ran screaming along the street for help, Ruth “shinnied” right
up one of the piazza pillars and squirmed out upon the shingled roof.

She tore her dress, and hurt her knees and hands; but she did not
think of this havoc at the moment. She got to the window of the room
in which her sisters slept, and screamed for Tess and Dot, but in
their first sleep the smaller girls were completely “dead to the
world.”

There was the screen to be reckoned with before the oldest Corner
House girl could enter. It was set into the window from the inside,
and she could neither lift the window-sash nor stir the screen. So she
beat the tough wire in with her fists, and they bled and hurt her
dreadfully! Nevertheless, she got through, falling into the room just
as the stifling smoke from below began to pour in around the bedroom
door.

“Tess! Dot! Hurry up! Get up!” she shrieked, shaking them both.

Tess aroused, whimpering. Ruth seized Dot bodily, flung a blanket
around her, and put her out of the window upon the roof. Then she
dragged Tess to the window and made her climb out after her sister.

“Oh, oh!” gasped Tess, alive at last to the cause of the excitement.
“Save the Alice-doll, Ruthie. Save Dot’s Alice-doll!”

And Ruth actually went back, groping through the gathering smoke, for
the doll. With it she scrambled out upon the shingles.

By that time the street was noisy with shouting people. Mr. Harrod
came with a fire extinguisher and attacked the flames. Other men came
and helped the girls down from the roof.

Agnes had fainted when she realized the danger her sisters were in.
Some of the other girls were quite hysterical. Neighbors took them all
in for the night.

It was quite an hour before the fire was completely out. Then the
Spoondrift bungalow certainly was in a mess.

“It will take carpenters and painters a fortnight and more to repair
the damage,” said Mr. Harrod the next morning. “Luckily none of your
guests lost their clothing, Pearl; but you will all have to go to the
hotel to finish your visit to Pleasant Cove.”

[Illustration: Ruth actually went back, groping through the gathering
smoke, for the doll. With it she scrambled out upon the shingles.]




CHAPTER XI

THE LITTLE OLD WOMAN WHO LIVED IN A SHOE


The Overlook House was nearest. Mr. Harrod made arrangements for the
girls to go there and occupy several rooms. At least, he presumed he
had made that arrangement with Mr. Severn when he left on the forenoon
train for Bloomingsburg to arrange his insurance and hire mechanics to
at once repair the bungalow.

The Spoondrift cottage was really not fit for occupancy and there
seemed nothing else for the girls to do but follow his advice and go
over to the Overlook. But Ruth Kenway had her doubts.

After the excitement of the fire, and the general “stir-about” which
ensued, Pearl Harrod had quite forgotten that the Corner House girls
were not on terms of intimacy with Trix Severn, the hotel keeper’s
daughter. It probably never entered her good-natured mind that Trix
would behave meanly when all hands from the Spoondrift had escaped the
peril of the fire.

The girls trooped over to the hotel, after repacking their baggage, to
look at the rooms which had been secured for them. Mr. Severn was not
there, nor was the clerk on duty. Their schoolmate, Trix, was behind
the desk.

“Oh, yes,” she said carelessly, “I presume we can find rooms for you.
But father doesn’t care much to take in people who won’t stay the
season out—especially at this time of the year. It’s a great
inconvenience.”

“Pooh!” said Pearl, frankly, “I guess your father is running his hotel
for money—not for sport. And Uncle Phil is going to pay him for all
the accommodation we get.”

“Indeed?” returned Trix. “You seem to know a lot about our business,
Miss Harrod.”

“Don’t you put on any of your high and mighty airs with me, Miss!”
snapped Pearl. “For they don’t go down, let me tell you! Didn’t Uncle
Phil secure rooms for us?”

“Well—he spoke of your coming here. There is Number 10, and 11, and
14; they’re all three double rooms, so you and Ann can have one, Maud
and Lulu another, and Carrie and Lucy the third.”

“But, goodness gracious! there are ten of us!” cried Pearl. “You know
that very well.”

“Those three rooms,” said Trix, with elaborate carelessness, “are all
your uncle provided.”

“Why, Uncle Phil must be crazy! Didn’t he get a big room for the
Kenways?”

“Humph!” said Trix, maliciously. “Are _they_ with you, Miss Harrod?
Your uncle must have quite overlooked them. All the rooms I know
anything about his securing for your party are the three I’ve
mentioned.”

“Well, where’s your father——”

“He’s gone fishing,” said Trix, promptly, and with a flash of
satisfaction in her eyes. “He won’t be back till late to-night.”

“Then, where’s the clerk?” demanded Pearl, much worried.

“Mr. Cheever doesn’t know anything about it. I was here when your
uncle made his bargain. Nothing was said about those Corner House
girls—so there! There is no room for them here.”

“Well! I call that the meanest thing!” began Pearl, but Ruth, who had
stood close by, interrupted:

“Don’t let it worry you in the least, Pearl. We have plenty of time to
find accommodations before night.”

“You won’t find them here, Miss!” snapped Trix.

“Nothing would make me remain under this roof for a night,” said Ruth,
indignantly. “My sisters and I have never done you any harm, Trix;
quite the contrary, as you would remember had you any gratitude at
all. This hotel is not the only place at Pleasant Cove where we can
find shelter, I am sure.”

“Oh, Ruth! don’t go!” begged Pearl. “This mean girl is not telling the
truth, I am sure. You’ll break up our party,” Pearl wailed.

“I couldn’t stay here now,” the oldest Corner House girl declared. “I
am going to secure a tent for us. I am quite sure we will be
comfortable in one. If other people can stand it under canvas, of
course _we_ can.”

She took Agnes by the hand and they went out of the hotel. Tess and
Dot had not come with them, but had been left at the neighbor’s where
they had all spent the night.

Pearl and the other girls could not very well follow them; they were
not so independently situated as the Corner House girls. Ruth had a
well filled pocket-book, as well as checks from Mr. Howbridge and an
introductory letter to the branch bank at Pleasant Cove.

She had been so used to going ahead, and arranging matters for the
whole family, during the past three years, that she was not troubled
much by this emergency. She was sorry that the pleasant party had to
be broken up, that was all. She was not sure that she and her sisters
knew any of the campers along the riverside.

There were two men who supplied tents and outfits for those who wished
to live under canvas, and so there were two distinct tent colonies,
though they were side by side.

One was called Camp Enterprise, and the other Camp Willowbend. The
latter was just at the bend of the river, and there were a few willows
on the low bluff back of it.

There were not more than a dozen tents erected in either camp as yet,
for it was early in the season. The Corner House girls rode quite a
mile from the hotel to Willowbend Camp and selected a tent that was
already erected.

It was a large wall-tent and it was divided in half by a canvas
partition that made a bedroom of one end and a living-room of the
front part. In the latter was a small sheetiron cookstove, with a pipe
that led the smoke outside of the tent. But there was an oilstove,
too, and Ruth decided that they would make arrangements for buying
most of their food cooked, so as to reduce the details of
housekeeping.

Agnes cheered up at once when she saw the tent-cities. And the smaller
girls were delighted with the prospect of living under canvas.

There were four cots in the tent, with sheets and blankets, and
apologies for pillows; there was matting laid down on the sand, too,
in this bedroom part of the tent.

The remainder of the furnishings consisted of four camp-chairs, a
plain deal table, a chest of drawers that contained the chinaware and
cooking utensils, and a small icebox. This front apartment had a plank
floor, made in sections.

It was a rough enough shelter, and the camping arrangements were
crude; nevertheless, the Corner House girls saw nothing but fun ahead
of them, and they were as busy as bees all that day “getting settled.”

There were pleasant people in the other tents of Camp Willowbend, but
none of them chanced to be Milton people. There were several girls of
ages corresponding to those of the Corner House girls, and the latter
were sure they would find these neighbors good sport.

The Kenways were so busy at noon that they only “took a bite in their
fists,” as good Mrs. MacCall would have expressed it. Ruth had been
wise enough to buy some cooked food in the village before they came
over to the camp, but she learned from some of the ladies in the tents
that there was a woman in the neighborhood who baked bread to sell,
and sometimes cookies and pies.

“You go to see Mrs. Bobster. She’s the nicest old lady!” declared one
city matron. “Make your arrangements for bread now, Miss Kenway, for
after she takes orders for as many as she can well supply, she
wouldn’t agree to bake another loaf. She has a real New England
conscience, and she wouldn’t promise to bake a single biscuit more
than she knows she can get in her oven.”

The directions for finding Mrs. Bobster interested and amused the
Corner House girls.

“She is the little old woman who lives in the shoe,” laughed their
informant. “You can’t miss the house, if you go along the beach road
toward town. It’s just beyond the other camp.”

“Oh!” cried Dot, eagerly, “_I_ want to see the lady who lives in a
shoe. She must have lots of children, for they were a great bother.”

“And,” said Tess, “do you suppose she _does_ whip them all soundly and
send them to bed with a piece of bread to eat?”

“We’ll discover all that,” promised Ruth, and soon after luncheon,
having fixed up the tent, and set to rights their things that the
expressman had brought over from the Spoondrift bungalow, the four
sisters set out to find Mrs. Bobster.

The girls had ridden over from the village along the highroad, on
which they had traveled two days before in the auto-stage. This lower,
or “beach” road was a much less important thoroughfare. In places it
followed the line of the shore so closely that the unusual high tides
that had prevailed that spring, had washed a great deal of white sand
across the swamp-grass and out upon it.

So, in places, the girls plodded through sand over their shoe tops.
“Might as well go barefooted,” declared Agnes, sitting down for the
third time to take off her oxfords and shake out the sand.

“You’d find it pretty different, if you tried it,” laughed Ruth. “This
sand is hot.”

“It does seem as though you slipped back half a step each time you
tried to go forward,” said Tess, seriously. “Aren’t we ever going to
get there, Ruth?”

“Oh!” cried Dot, suddenly, “isn’t that a giraffe? And there’s a
camel!”

“For goodness’ sake!” gasped Agnes, plunging to her feet, and hopping
along after her sisters, trying to get on her left shoe. “Is this the
African desert?”

“It looks like it,” said Ruth, herself amazed.

“And it’s hot enough,” grumbled Agnes. “Oh! I see! it’s a wrecked
carousel.”

There were decrepit lions and tigers, too; the rain-washed and broken
animals were the remains of a carousel, the machinery of which had
been taken away. Once somebody had tried to finance a small pleasure
resort between the real village of Pleasant Cove and the two tent
colonies, but it had been unsuccessful.

The wreck of a “shoot the chutes,” the carousel, a dancing pavilion
and a short boardwalk with adjacent stands, had been abandoned by the
unfortunate promoters. There was a tower—now a “leaning” tower;
broken-down swings; an abandoned moving picture palace; and back from
the rest of the wreckage, several hundred yards from the sandy shore,
the girls saw a rusty looking frame structure, shaped like a shoe,
with a flagstaff sticking out of the roof.

“There it is!” cried Tess, eagerly. “And it _does_ look like a shoe.”

Originally the house had been a tiny brown cottage set in the midst of
a garden. The fence surrounding the place was still well kept. The
second story of the cottage had been transformed into the semblance of
a congress-gaiter, with windows in the sides and front. It looked as
though that huge shoe had been carefully placed upon the rafters of
the first floor rooms of the cottage.

“What a funny looking place!” exclaimed Agnes. “Did you ever see the
like, Ruth? I wonder if Mrs. Bobster is as funny as her house.”

At that moment a figure bobbed up among the beanpoles in the garden,
and the girls saw that it was a little woman in a calico sunbonnet.
Her face was very small and hard and rosy—like a well-shined Baldwin
apple. She had twinkling blue eyes, as sharp as file-points.

“Shoo!” exclaimed the little woman. “Shoo, Agamemnon! Git aout o’ them
pea-vines like I told you!”

For a moment the Corner House girls did not see Agamemnon; they could
not imagine who he was.

“Shoo, I tell ye!” exclaimed the little old woman who lived in a shoe,
and she struck out with the short-handled hoe she was using.

There was a squawk, and out leaped, with awkward stride, a long legged
rooster—of what “persuasion” it was impossible to tell, for he was
swathed from neck to spurs in a wonderful garment which had
undoubtedly been made out of a red flannel undershirt!

Two or three bedraggled tail-feathers appeared at the aperture in the
back of this garment; otherwise Agamemnon seemed to be quite
featherless. And when, clear of his mistress’ reach, he flapped his
almost naked wings and crowed, he was the most comical looking object
the Corner House girls had ever seen.




CHAPTER XII

A PICNIC WITH AGAMEMNON


“You see, gals, Agamemnon’s been the most unlucky bird that ever was
hatched,” said the little old woman, coming across the tiny lawn to
the fence where the Corner House girls were staring, round-eyed, at
the strange apparition of a rooster in a red-flannel sleeping-suit.

“But he’s the pluckiest! Yes, ma’am! He was only a pindling critter
when he pipped the shell, an’ the vi-cis-_si_-tudes that bird’s been
through since he fust scratched would ha’ made a human lay right down
and die.

“The other chickens never would let him raise a pin-feather ter cover
his nakedness; they picked on him suthin’ _awful_. I shet him up till
his wings and tail growed, an’ a rat got in an’ gnawed the feathers
right off him in one night; but Agamemnon picked and clawed so’t the
old rat didn’t bleed him much.

“And now here, lately, a neighbor got a half-breed game rooster, an’
thet pesky fightin’ bird got down here an’ sasses Agamemnon on his own
premises.

“Ag wouldn’t stand for that,” said the old lady, her blue eyes fairly
crackling. “He sailed right inter that game chicken—an’ Neighbor
Lincoln et his rooster the nex’ Sunday for dinner. ’Twas all he could
do with the critter after Agamemnon got through with him.

“But that game rooster had tore ev’ry _important_ feather off’n poor
Agamemnon’s carcass. I had to do suthin’. ’Twarn’t decent for him to
go ’round bare. So I made him that smock out of one o’ poor Eddie’s
old shirts. And there ye be!” she finished breathlessly, smiling
broadly upon the interested Corner House girls.

“I guess you are Mrs. Bobster?” asked Ruth, smiling in return.

“Are you _really_ the—the lady who lives in the shoe?” asked Dot,
round-eyed.

“That’s what they call me, pet,” said Mrs. Bobster, smiling at the
smallest Kenway. “I’m the only little old woman who lives in _this_
shoe. Poor Eddie thought we’d make a mint of money if we built over
the top of our house like that, and I sold gingercakes and sweeties to
the children who came down here to the beach. Eddie was allus mighty
smart in thinkin’ up schemes for me to make money. But the Beach
Company went up in smoke, as the sayin’ is; so we didn’t make our
fortun’ after all.”

She laughed. Indeed, this little, apple-faced old lady was almost
always laughing, it seemed.

“Poor Eddie!” she added. “I guess the Beach Company failin’ took about
all the tuck out o’ him. He said himself it was the last straw on the
camel’s back. He jest settled right down inter his chair, like; and he
didn’t last that winter out. He was allus weakly, Eddie was.”

The Corner House girls knew she must be speaking of her husband. So
now she was all alone in the house that had such a grotesque upper
story.

“No. There ain’t no children here—only them that comes in to see me,”
Mrs. Bobster said in answer to a question from Tess. “We never did
have no children; but we allus loved ’em.”

Meanwhile she had opened the gate and invited the Corner House girls
into the yard. There was an arbor which was already shaded by
quick-growing vines. The little kitchen garden, with its border of
gooseberries and currants, was as neat as it could be.

“I gotter cow of my own out back, and hens, too. I make a bare livin’
in winter, and put frills onto it in summer,” and the old lady
laughed. “These folks from the city that come livin’ in tents here,
like my bread and cookies.”

“That is what we have come to arrange for, Mrs. Bobster,” said Ruth.

“I dunno. Most all I can comferbly bake three times a week, is
bespoke,” said the little old woman who lived in a shoe. “How many is
there in your fam’bly, Miss?”

When she heard that there were just four of them—these girls
alone—and that they were to live by themselves in a tent, she grew
greatly interested.

“Surely I’ll bake for you—and cookies, too. Maybe a fruit pie oncet
in a while—’specially if you’ll go over beyond the bend when berries
is ripe and pick ’em yourself. And you gals a-livin’ all alone? Sho!
I’d think you’d be scaret to death.”

“Why, no!” said Ruth. “Why should we?”

“After dark,” said the old woman, shaking her hand.

“Who would hurt us?” asked the Corner House girl in wonder.

“Can’t most always sometimes tell,” said the old woman, shaking her
head.

“But _you_ live here alone!”

“No,” she said, quickly. “Not after dark. I ain’t never alone. Oh,
no!”

She spoke as though she were afraid Ruth might not believe her, and
repeated the denial several times.

Tess and Dot were very anxious to go upstairs and see the rooms in the
“shoe,” and they made the request to Ruth in an audible whisper.

“For sure!” cried Mrs. Bobster. “All the children that come here want
to go upstairs. If I had ’em of my own, that’s where I’d put ’em all
to bed after I’d fed ’em bread and ‘whipped ’em all soundly,’” and she
laughed.

“I don’t believe you’d have whipped the children, if you’d been the
really truly little old woman that lived in the shoe,” quoth Dot,
putting a confiding hand into the apple-faced lady’s hard palm.

“I bet _you_ wouldn’t have had to be whipped,” laughed Mrs. Bobster,
leading Dot away, with Tess following.

Later the hostess of the shoe-house brought out a pitcher of milk and
glasses with a heaping plate of ginger cookies—the old-fashioned kind
that just _melt_ on your tongue!

“Sho!” she said, when Ruth praised them. “It’s easy enough to make
good merlasses cookies. But ye don’t wanter have no conscience when it
comes to butter—no, indeed!”

Agamemnon came to the feast. In his ridiculous red flannel suit he
waddled up to his mistress and pecked crumbs off her lap when she sat
down on the bench in the arbor.

“He looks just like a person ready to go in swimming,” chuckled Agnes.
“It’s a red bathing suit.”

“That’s one thing Agamemnon can’t stand. He don’t like water,” said
Mrs. Bobster. “But if I let him out at low tide he’ll beau a flock of
hens right down to the clamflats. But now, poor thing! they won’t go
with him.”

“Who—the hens!” asked Ruth, wonderingly.

“Yes. They don’t think he looks jest right, I s’pose. If he chassés up
to one of my old biddies, she tries to tear that flannel suit right
off’n him. It’s hard on poor Agamemnon; but until his feathers start
to grow good again, I don’t dare have him go without it. He’d git
sunburned like a brick, in the fust place.”

This tickled Agnes so that she almost fell off the bench.

“But I should think the red flannel would tickle him awfully,”
murmured Tess, quite seriously disturbed over the plight of the
rooster.

“Sho! keeps away rheumatics. So poor Eddie allus said,” declared the
widow. “That’s why he wore red flannel for forty year—and he never
had a mite of rheumatism. Agamemnon ought to be satisfied he’s alive,
after all he’s been through.”

It was really very funny to see the rooster strutting about the yard
in what Agnes called his red bathing suit.

The Corner House girls remained for some time with Mrs. Bobster. When
they went back to the camp at the bend they carried their first supply
of bread and cookies.

They arrived at their tent to find a wagonette Pearl had hired in the
port, and all the other girls who had been at the Spoondrift bungalow
had come visiting.

The crowd was delighted with the way Ruth and her sisters were
situated. It looked as though to live under canvas would be great fun
indeed.

“Wish I’d spoken to Uncle Phil about it, and gotten him to hire tents
instead of putting us up at that old hotel,” declared Pearl. “And do
you know, girls, that Trix Severn told a story?”

“I didn’t suppose she’d be above being untruthful,” Ruth said, rather
indignantly.

“And you’re quite right. We found out that her father set aside a big,
double-bedded room for you four girls. Trix says she did not know
anything about it. But of course Uncle Phil would not have forgotten
you.”

“Never mind,” said Agnes. “I’m glad she acted so. We’re a whole lot
better off here.”

“I believe you!” said Carrie Poole.

“You going to have Rosa Wildwood here in the tent with you when she
comes?” asked Ann Presby.

“I’m afraid she ought to have a better place,” said Ruth. “And I
believe I know just where she would get the attention—and food—that
she needs,” and the oldest Corner House girl told the crowd about Mrs.
Bobster—the little old lady who lived in a shoe.

“If I can get the dear old thing to take Rosa to board, I know she’ll
give her just what she needs—good food, plenty of it, well cooked,
and Rosa will be in a quiet place where she can rest all she wants
to,” said Ruth.

She had no idea at the time of the strange adventure that would arise
out of this plan of hers to bring Rosa Wildwood to stay for a part of
the summer with the little old woman who lived in a shoe.




CHAPTER XIII

THE NIGHT OF THE BIG WIND


“Ruthie! there’s another man wants to sell you a boat.”

“Ruthie! there’s another man wants to sell an elephant—and it’s _so_
cute!”

“For the land’s sake!” gasped Ruth, throwing down a sputtering pen,
where she was writing on the chest of drawers in the tent. “_How_ can
a body write? And an elephant, no less!”

She rushed out to see Dot’s elephant, as that seemed more important
than Tess’ announcement that a man had merely a boat for sale. Dot’s
man was a gangling young fellow with a covered basket from which he
was selling sugar cakes made into fancy shapes. So Dot had her
elephant for the Alice-doll (almost everything that appealed to Dot
was bought for that pampered child of hers!) and was appeased.

But the man with the boat was a different matter. He proved to be a
boat owner and he wanted to hire one of his craft to the Corner House
girls by the week. Agnes was just crazy (so she said) to add rowing to
her accomplishments, and Ruth thought it would be a good thing
herself.

The boat was a safe, cedar craft, with two pairs of light oars and a
portable kerosene engine and propeller to use if the girls got tired
of rowing. Ruth made the bargain after thoroughly looking over the
boat, which had had only one season’s use.

There was a chain and padlock for mooring it to a post at the edge of
the water just below the tent.

The older girls had already learned to swim in the school gymnasium at
Milton. Milton was pretty well up to date in its school arrangements.

Tess had been taught to “strike out” and could be left safely to
paddle by herself in shallow water while Ruth and Agnes taught little
Dot.

The latter refused to own to any fear of the water. Up here in the
river the waves were seldom of any consequence, and of course on
stormy days the girls would not go bathing at all.

Others of the Willowbend campers had rowboats for the season; and some
even owned their own motorboats. The girls were well advised regarding
fishing-tackle and the like. Crabbing was a favorite sport just then,
for several small creeks emptied into the river nearby and soft-shell
crabs and shedders were plentiful.

“I’d be afraid of these crabs if their teeth were hard,” Dot declared,
for she insisted that the “pincers” of the crustaceans were teeth.

“They are dreadfully _squirmy_, anyway,” sighed Tess. “Just like
spiders. And yet, we eat them!”

“But—but I always shut my eyes when I eat them; just as I do when I
swallow raw oysters,” confessed Dot. “They taste so much better than
they look!”

Having the boat, the Corner House girls rowed to the village for their
supplies and to visit their friends. They did not go to the Overlook
House; but Pearl Harrod and her party were at the burned bungalow
almost all day. They always bathed there, and the Corner House girls
went down to bathe with them. The beach was better there than at the
camp.

It was Monday when Ruth Kenway and her sisters were established in
their tent. On Thursday of that week they rowed over to Spoondrift
bungalow in the morning. Pearl greeted them before they got ashore
with:

“Oh, Ruth! The funniest thing has happened. You’d never guess.”

“Trix Severn has the mumps!” exclaimed Agnes. “I knew she was all
swelled up.”

“Not as good as _that_,” laughed Pearl. “But worse may happen to that
girl than mumps. However, it’s nothing to do with Trix.”

“What is it?” asked Ruth, calmly. “I’m not a good guesser, Pearl.”

“You remember those Gypsies?”

“That are camped up in the woods!”

“Yes.”

“If they _are_ Gypsies,” said Ruth, doubtfully.

“Of course they are!” cried Pearl. “Well, they’ve been around here
looking for you.”

“For goodness’ sake!” gasped Agnes. “What for?”

Ruth herself looked startled. But Pearl began to laugh again.

“At least, that queer old woman has been asking for you,” she
explained.

“Zaliska!” exclaimed Ruth, although she was very sure that was not the
person’s name. Of course the name was part of the strange girl’s
masquerade.

“It was this morning,” Pearl went on to say. “We didn’t see many of
the women of the tribe when we came past that camp last week. But a
number of them came down into the village this morning—selling
baskets and telling fortunes from door to door. We saw them over by
the hotel—didn’t we, girls?”

“Yes. I bought a basket from one of them,” admitted Carrie Poole.

“But when we came up here to the bungalow,” pursued Pearl, “one of the
men working here asked me if I’d seen ‘my friend, the Gypsy queen’?
So, I said ‘No,’ of course.

“Then he told me that that Zaliska had asked him where the girl was
who was called Ruth Kenway. He told her that after the bungalow got
afire, all the girls went to the hotel.”

“Then she’ll never find you there, Ruth,” interposed Agnes, with
satisfaction.

Ruth was not sure that she did not wish the supposed Gypsy queen to
find her. She knew that “Zaliska” was really the very pretty,
dark-skinned girl whom she had been so much interested in on the train
coming down from Milton.

And that strange girl was interested in Rosa Wildwood. Of that Ruth
was as sure as she could be.

“Maybe she’ll follow you up to the camp,” said Lucy Poole. “I’d be
afraid to live all alone in that tent if I were you girls.”

“Pooh!” exclaimed Agnes. “What’s going to hurt us!”

“The crabs might come up the beach at night and pinch your toes,”
laughed Maud Everts.

“I don’t know,” Pearl said, seriously. “I wouldn’t want those Gyps
interested in _me_.”

“Now you are trying to frighten us,” laughed Ruth. “We have plenty of
neighbors. Don’t you come up there and try to play tricks on us in the
tent. You might get hurt.”

“Bet she has a gatling gun,” chuckled Carrie Poole.

“I’m going to have something better than that,” declared Ruth,
smiling. But she refused to tell them _what_.

Ruth remembered that the little old woman who lived in a shoe had
spoken of being afraid, too; so the oldest Corner House girl made her
plans accordingly, but kept them to herself.

After their bath the sisters dressed in the Harrod tent that had been
pitched on the lawn behind the bungalow, and then went on to the
village. Ruth and Agnes rowed very nicely, for the former, at least,
had had some practise at this sport before coming to Pleasant Cove.

They tied the painter of their boat to a ring in one of the wharf
stringers, and went “up town” to the stores. The village of Pleasant
Cove was never a bustling business center. There were but few people
on the main street, and most of those were visitors.

“There are two of those Gypsy women, Ruth!” hissed Agnes in her
sister’s ear, as they came out of a store.

Ruth looked up to see the woman who had been in the train, and
another. They were both humbly dressed, but in gay colors. Ruth looked
up and down the street for the disguised figure of the young girl, but
_she_ was not in sight.

“My goodness, Ruth!” said Agnes, “what do you suppose that old hag of
a Gypsy wants you for?”

“She isn’t——” began Ruth. Then she thought better of taking Agnes
into her confidence just then and did not finish her impulsively begun
speech, but said:

“We won’t bother about it. She probably won’t find us up at Willowbend
Camp.”

“I should hope _not_!” cried Agnes. “I don’t want to get any better
acquainted with those Gyps.”

The matter, however, caused Ruth to think more particularly of Rosa
Wildwood. She had not yet found a boarding place for the Southern
girl, and Rosa was to come down to Pleasant Cove the next Monday.

Ruth wanted to see Mrs. Bobster, and she did so that very afternoon.
On their way back to the camp they tied the boat up at the foot of the
wrecked pleasure park and walked up the broken boardwalk to the
shoe-house.

“Here’s your bread, girls—warm from the oven,” said the brisk little
woman. “And if you want a pan of seed cookies——”

“Oh! don’t we, just!” sighed Agnes.

The girls sat down to eat some of the delicacies right then and there,
and Mrs. Bobster brought a pitcher of cool milk from the well-curb.
Ruth at once opened the subject of getting board for Rosa with the
little old woman who lived in a shoe.

“Wal, I re’lly don’t know what ter say to ye,” declared Mrs. Bobster.
“I ain’t never kalkerlated ter run a boardin’ house——

“But one young lady! I dunno. They wanted me to take old Mr. Kendricks
ter board last winter; the town selectmen did. But I told ’em ‘No.’ I
warn’t runnin’ a boardin’ house—nor yet the poorfarm.”

“Poorfarm?” questioned Ruth, puzzled by the reference.

“Yep. Ye see, there ain’t been no town poor here in Pleasant Cove for
a number o’ years. Last winter old Mr. Kendricks see fit to let the
town board him. He’s spry enough to go clammin’ in the summer; an’ he
kin steer a boat when his rheumatics ain’t so bad. But winters is
gittin’ hard on him.

“It didn’t seem good jedgment,” Mrs. Bobster said, reflectively, “to
open the poorfarm jest for _him_. B’sides, they’d got the old farm let
to good advantage for another year to Silas Holcomb. So they come to
me.

“Now, Mr. Kendricks is as nice an old man as ever you’d wish ter see,”
pursued Mrs. Bobster. “He comes of good folks—jest as good as my poor
Eddie’s folks.

“The town selectmen had consid’rable trouble gettin’ Mr. Kendricks
took, ’count o’ his being so pertic’lar. Yeast bread seemed ter be his
chief objection. He couldn’t make up his mind to it on account of
havin’ had sour milk biscuit all his life; but finally, after I’d said
‘No,’ they got Mis’ Ann ’Liza Cobbles to agree to give him hot bread
three times a day like he was used to.

“But, lawsy me! She ain’t a com-_plete_ cook—no, indeed! Mr.
Kendricks said her cookin’ warn’t up to the mark, an’ if he has to go
on the town this comin’ winter he shouldn’t go to Mis’ Cobbles.

“The selectmen may be driv’ to open the poorfarm ag’in, an’ to gittin’
somebody ter do for Mr. Kendricks proper.

“Maybe it’s a sort of lesson to the folks of Pleasant Cove,” sighed
Mrs. Bobster, “for bein’ sort o’ proud-like through reason of not
havin’ no town poor for endurin’ of ten years. I view it that way
myself.

“Mr. Kendricks says he feels as if he was meant ter be a notice to
’em; ter be ready an’ waitin’ ter help people in a proper way; not to
be boardin’ of ’em ’round where they might git dyspepsia fastened on
’em through eatin’ of unproper food.”

Agnes was giggling; but Ruth managed to get the talkative old lady
back into the track she wanted her in. The Corner House girl
expatiated upon how little trouble Rosa would be, and what a nice girl
she was.

“Well!” said Mrs. Bobster, “I might try her. You offer awful temptin’
money, Miss. And poor Eddie allus said I’d do anything for money!”

It had been fortunate for the deceased Mr. Bobster, as Ruth had
learned, that his wife _had_ been willing to earn money in any honest
way; for Mr. Bobster himself seldom had done a day’s work after his
marriage to the brisk little woman.

So the matter of Rosa Wildwood’s board and lodging was arranged, and
the Kenways went back to their boat. Evening was approaching, and with
it dark clouds had rolled up from the horizon, threatening a bad
night.

Ruth and Agnes found a head wind to contend with when they pushed off
the cedar boat. Ruth had learned to run the little motor propeller,
and she started it at once. Otherwise they would have a hard time
pulling up to Willowbend Camp.

During the week there were few men at the tent colonies. On Saturdays
and Sundays the husbands and fathers were present in force; but now
there was not a handful of adult males in either the Enterprise or
Willowbend encampments.

The Corner House girls were helped ashore, however, and they hauled
their boat clear up to the front of their tent. There was quite a
swell on, and the waves ran far up the beach, hissing and spattering
spray into the air. The wind swept this spray against the tents in
gusts, like rain.

But there was no rain—only wind. The black clouds threatened, but
there was no downpour. There was no such thing as having a coal fire,
however; the wind blew right down the stack and filled the tent with
choking smoke.

They lit a lantern and ate a cold supper. The flaps of the tent were
laced down, for they had been warned against letting the wind get
under. Now and then, however, a chill draught blew over them and the
partition creaked.

“It’s just like a storm at sea,” said Agnes, rather fearfully, yet
enjoying the novel sensation. “We might as well be on a sailing ship.”

“Not much!” exclaimed Ruth. “At least, we’re on an even keel.”

They agreed to go to bed early. Lying in the cots, well covered with
the blankets, seemed the safest place on such a night. There was no
shouting back and forth from tent to tent, and no visiting.

Lights went out early. The wind shrieked in the treetops back from the
shore, and in the lulls the girls could hear the breakers booming on
the rocks outside the cove.

Tess and Dot went to sleep—tired with the day’s activities. Not so
the older girls. They lay and listened, and shivered as the booming
voice of the wind grew in volume, and the water seemed to drive
farther and farther up the beaches.

Forever after, this night was known at Pleasant Cove as “the night of
the big wind.” But as yet it had only begun and the Corner House girls
had no idea of what was in store for them.




CHAPTER XIV

AN IMPORTANT ARRIVAL


Agnes _did_ fall asleep; but Ruth only dozed, if she closed her eyes
at all. The rumble of the storm shook the nerves of the oldest Corner
House girl—and no wonder!

Ruth felt the weight of responsibility for her sisters’ safety. If
anything happened while they were under canvas she knew that she would
be blamed.

Sometimes the spray swept in from the river and spattered on the
canvas like a drenching shower. The walls of the tent shook. She heard
many sounds without that she could not explain—and some of these
sounds frightened her.

Suppose the tent should blow down? The way the wind sometimes shook it
reminded Ruth of a dog shaking a bit of rag.

Then, when the wind held its breath for a moment, the roaring of the
sea in the distance was a savage sound to which the girl’s ears were
not attuned.

She had left the lantern lit and it swung from a rope tied to the
ridgepole of the tent, and beyond the half partition of canvas. Its
flickering light cast weird shadows upon the canvas roof.

Now and then the spray beat against the front of the tent, while the
roof shook and shivered as though determined to tear away from the
walls. Ruth wished she had gone all around the tent before dark to
make sure the pegs were driven well into the sand.

Occasionally children cried shrilly, for the noise of the elements
frightened them; Ruth was thankful that Tess and Dot slept on.

She slept herself at last; how long she did not know, for when she
awoke she was too greatly frightened to look at her watch. The wind
seemed suddenly to have increased. It seemed struggling to tear the
tent up by the roots!

And as the canvas shook, and swelled, and strove to burst its
fastenings, there came a sudden snap on one side and one of the pegs
flew high in the air at the end of its rope, coming down slap on the
roof of the tent!

“The peg has pulled out!” gasped Ruth, sitting up in her cot and
throwing off the blanket.

The canvas was straining and bellying fearfully at the point where the
peg had drawn. It was likely to draw the pegs on either side. Ruth
very well knew that if a broad enough opening was made for the wind to
get under, the tent would be torn from its fastenings.

She hopped out upon the matting and shook Agnes by the shoulder.

“Get up! Get up, Ag!” she called, breathlessly. “Help me.”

She ran to the front of the tent for the maul—a long-handled,
heavy-headed croquet-mallet. When she returned with it, Agnes was
trying to rub her eyes open.

“Come quick, Ag! We’ll be blown away,” declared Ruth.

“I—I——What’ll we do?” whimpered Agnes.

“We must hold the tent down. Come on! Get into your mackintosh. I’ll
get the lantern.”

Around the upright pole in the sleeping part of the tent were hung the
girls’ outer garments. Ruth got into her own raincoat and buttoned it
to her ankles. She left Agnes struggling with hers while she ran to
unhang the lantern. She knew the night must be as black as a pocket
outside.

“Wha—what you going to do?” stuttered Agnes.

“Drive the pegs in deeper. One of them pulled out.”

“Oh, dear! _Can_ we?”

“I guess we’ll have to, if we don’t want to lose our tent. Hear that
wind?”

“It—it sounds like cannon roaring.”

“Come on!”

“But that isn’t the front flap——”

“Think I’m going to unlace that front flap when the wind’s blowing
right into it?”

“Can’t we get out yonder, where the peg has been pulled?”

“But how’ll we get in again when all the stakes are driven down hard?”
snapped Ruth, beginning to unlace the flaps of the rear wall of the
tent.

“Oh! oh!” moaned Agnes. “Hear that wind?”

“I wouldn’t care if it only _hollered_,” gasped Ruth. “It’s what it
will do if it ever gets under this tent, that troubles me!”

She unlaced the flaps only a little way. “Come along with that
lantern, Ag. We’ve got to crawl under.”

“‘Get down and get under,’” giggled Agnes, hysterically.

But she brought the lantern and followed Ruth out of the tent, on
hands and knees. When they stood up and tried to go around to that
side of the tent where the peg had pulled out, the wind almost knocked
them down.

“And how the sleet cuts!” gasped Agnes, her arm across her eyes for
protection.

“It’s sand,” explained Ruth. “I thought it was spray from the river.
But a good deal of it is sand—just like a sand-storm in the desert.”

“Well!” grumbled Agnes, “I hope it’s killing a lot of those sandfleas
that bother us so. I don’t see how they can live and be blown about
this way.”

Ruth tackled the first post at the corner and beat it down as hard as
she could, Agnes holding the lantern so that the older girl could see
where to strike.

They went from one peg to the next, taking each in rotation. And when
they reached the one that had pulled out entirely, Ruth drove that
into the ground just as far as it would go.

Strangely enough, throughout all this business, Tess and Dot did not
awake. Ruth went clear around the tent, driving the stakes. The wind
howled; the sand and spray blew; and the voices of the Night and of
the Storm seemed fairly to yell at them. Still the smaller Corner
House girls slept through it all. Ruth and Agnes crept back into the
tent and laced the flaps down in safety.

A little later, before either of them fell asleep again, they heard
shouting and confusion at a distance. In the morning they learned that
two of the tents in the Enterprise Camp had blown down.

The shore was strewn with wreckage, too, when daybreak came; but the
wind seemed to have blown itself out. Many small craft had come
ashore, and some were damaged. It was not often that the summer
visitors at Pleasant Cove saw any such gale as this had been.

Everything was all right with the Corner House girls, and Ruth decided
they would stick to the tent, in spite of the fact that some of the
camping families were frightened away from the tent colonies by this
disgraceful exhibition of Mr. Wind!

The smaller Kenways, as well as the bigger girls, were enjoying the
out-of-door life immensely. They were already as brown as berries.
They ran all day, bare-headed and bare-legged, on the sands. It was
plain to be seen that the change from Milton to Pleasant Cove was
doing all the Corner House girls a world of good.

And during the extremely pleasant days that immediately followed the
night of the big wind, many new colonists came to the tents. Two big
tents were erected in the Willowbend Camp, for Joe Eldred and _his_
friends—and that included, of course, Neale O’Neil. But the Milton
boys would not arrive until the next week.

On Monday afternoon the Corner House girls walked down to the railroad
station to greet Rosa Wildwood. It had been a very hot day in town and
it was really hot at Pleasant Cove, as well.

“Oh! you poor thing!” gasped Ruth, receiving Rosa in her strong arms
as she stumbled off the car steps with her bag.

“I’m as thin as the last run of shad, am I not?” asked Rosa, laughing.
“That train was _awful_! I am baked. It’s never like this down South.
The air is so much dryer there; there isn’t this humidity. Oh!”

“Well, you’re here all right now, Rosa,” cried Ruth. “We have a nice,
easy carriage for you to ride in. And the _dearest_ place for you to
live!”

“And scrumptious eating, Rose,” added Agnes.

“With the little old woman who lives in a shoe,” declared Tess, eager
to add her bit of information.

Dot’s finger had strayed to the corner of her mouth, as she stared.
For she had never met Rosa before, and she was naturally rather a
bashful child.

“Now!” cried Ruth, again. “Where is he?”

“Who?” demanded Agnes, staring all about. “Neale didn’t come, did he?”

“Oh, he’s up in the baggage-car ahead,” said Rosa, laughing.

“You sit right down here till I get him,” Ruth commanded.

“Here’s the check,” Rosa said, and to the amazement of the other
Corner House girls Ruth ran right away toward the head of the train
with the baggage check, and without saying another word.

There were two baggage cars on the long train and from the open door
of the first one the man was throwing trunks and bags onto the big
wheel-truck.

So Ruth ran on to the other car. The side-door was wheeled back just
as she arrived, and a glad bark welcomed her appearance.

Tom Jonah stood in the doorway, straining at his leash held in the
hands of the baggageman. His tongue lolled out on his chest like a red
necktie, and he was laughing just as plainly as ever a dog _did_
laugh.

“I see he knows you, Miss,” said the man. “You don’t have to prove
property. He sure is glad to see you,” and he accepted the check.

“No gladder than I am to see him,” said Ruth. “Let him jump down,
please.”

She caught the leather strap as the baggageman tossed it toward her,
and Tom Jonah bounded about her in an ecstasy of delight.

“Down, sir!” she commanded. “Now, Tom Jonah, come and see the girls.
But behave.”

He barked loudly, but trotted along beside her most sedately. Tess and
Dot had heard him, and deserting Rosa and Agnes, they came flying up
the platform to meet Ruth and the big dog.

The two younger Corner House girls hugged Tom Jonah, and he licked
their hands in greeting. Agnes was as extravagantly glad to see him as
were the others.

“How did you come to send for him, Ruthie?” Agnes cried.

“I thought we might need a chaperon at the tent,” laughed Ruth.

“The Gyps!” exclaimed Agnes, under her breath. “Let them come now, if
they want to. You’re a smart girl, Ruthie.”

“Sh!” commanded the older sister. “Don’t let the children hear.”

They helped Rosa into the wagonette and then climbed in after her.
Ruth had taken off Tom Jonah’s leash and the good old dog trotted
after the carriage as it rolled through Main Street and out upon the
Shore Road toward the tent colonies.

Rosa brought all the news of home to the Corner House girls and many
messages from Mrs. MacCall and Uncle Rufus. Of course, they could
expect no word from Aunt Sarah, for it was not her way to be
sympathetic or show any deep interest in what her adopted nieces were
doing.

The girls from the old Corner House might have been a little homesick
had there not been so much to take up their attention each hour at
Pleasant Cove.

They brought Rosa to the little old woman who lived in a shoe, and the
moment Mrs. Bobster saw how weak and white she was her sympathy went
out to her.

“Tut, tut, tut!” she said, clucking almost as loudly as Agamemnon
himself. “We’ll soon fix you up, my dear. If you stay long enough here
at the beach, you’ll be as brown and strong as these other gals.”

Rosa put her arm about Ruth’s neck when the Corner House girls were
about to leave.

“This is a heavenly place, Ruth Kenway, and you are an angel for
bringing me down heah. I don’t know what greater thing anybody could
do fo’ me—and you aren’t even kin!”

“Don’t bother, Rosa. I haven’t done much——”

“There’s nothing in the world—but one thing—that could make me
happier.”

Ruth looked at her curiously, and Rosa added:

“To find June. I hope to find her some day—yes, I do.”

“And suppose I should help you do _that_?” laughed the oldest Corner
House girl.




CHAPTER XV

TWO GIRLS IN A BOAT—TO SAY NOTHING OF THE DOG!


“Oh, Dot! do come here. Did you ever see such a funny thing in all
your life?”

Tess Kenway was just as earnest as though the discovery she had made
was really of great moment. The two bare-legged girls were on the
sands below the tent colony of Willowbend, and the tide was out.

The receding waves had just left this wet flat bare. Here and there
the sand still dimpled to the heave of the tide, and little rivers of
water ran into the hollows and out again.

“What is the matter, Tess?” asked Dot, wonderingly.

“See!”

Tess pointed down at her feet—where the drab, wet sand showed
lighter-colored under the pressure of her weight.

“What is it?” gasped the amazed Dot.

There was a tiny round hole in the sand—just like an ant hole, only
there was no “hill” thrown up about it. As Tess tip-tilted on her toes
to bring more pressure to bear near the orifice in the sand, a little
fountain of water spurted into the air—shot as though from a fairy
gun buried in the sand.

“Goodness!” gasped Dot again. “What _is_ that?”

“That’s what I say,” responded Tess. “Did you ever see the like?”

“Oh! here’s another,” cried Dorothy, who chanced to step near a
similar vent. “See it squirt, Tess! See it squirt!”

“What kind of a creature do you suppose can be down there?” asked the
bigger girl.

“It—it can’t be anything very big,” suggested Dot. “At least, it must
be awfully narrow to get down through the little hole, and pull itself
’way out of sight.”

This suggestion certainly opened a puzzling vista of possibilities to
the minds of both inland-bred girls. What sort of an animal could
possibly crawl into such a small aperture—and yet throw such a
comparatively powerful stream of water into the air?

They found several more of the little air-holes. Whenever they stamped
upon the sand beside one, up would spring the fountain!

“Just like the books say a whale squirts water through its nose,”
declared Tess, who had rather a rough-and-ready knowledge of some
facts of natural history.

A man with a basket on his arm and a four-pronged, short-handled rake
in his hand, was working his way across the flats; sometimes stooping
and digging quickly with his rake, when he would pick something up and
toss it into his basket.

He drew near to two Corner House girls, and Dot whispered to Tess:

“Do you suppose he’d know what these holes are for? You ask him,
Tess.”

“And he’s digging out something, himself. Do you suppose he’s
collecting clams? Ruth says clams grow here on the shore and folks dig
them,” Tess replied.

“Let’s ask about the holes,” determined Dot, who was persistent
whether the cause was good or bad.

The two girls approached the clam-digger, hand in hand. Dot hugged
tight in the crook of one arm her Alice-doll.

“Please, sir,” Tess ventured, “will you tell us what grows down under
this sand and squirts water up at us through such a teeny, weeny
hole?”

The man was a very weather-beaten looking person, with his shirt open
at the neck displaying a brawny chest. He smiled down upon the girls.

“How’s that, shipmet?” he asked, in a very husky voice. “Show me them
same holes.”

The sisters led the way, and the very saltish man followed. It was not
until then that Tess and Dot noticed that one of his legs was of wood,
and he stumped along in a most awkward manner.

“Hel-_lo_!” growled the man, seeing the apertures in the sand. “Them’s
clams, an’ jest what I’m arter. By your lief——”

He struck the rake down into the sand just beyond one of the holes and
dug quickly for half a minute. Then he tossed out of the hole he had
dug a nice, fat clam.

“There he be, shipmets,” declared the clam-digger, who probably had a
habit of addressing everybody as “shipmate.”

“Oh—but—did _he_ squirt the water up at us, sir?” gasped Dot.

The wooden-legged man grinned again and seized the clam between a firm
finger and thumb. When he pinched it, the bivalve squirted through its
snout a fine spray.

“Oh, mercy!” exclaimed Tess, drawing back.

“But—but _how_ did he get down into the sand and only leave such a
tiny hole behind him?” demanded Dot, bent upon getting information.

“Ah, shipmet! there ye have it. I ain’t a l’arned man. I ain’t never
been to school. I went ter sea all my days till I got this here leg
shot off me and had to take to wearin’ a timber-toe. I couldn’t tell
ye, shipmets, how a clam does go down his hole an’ yet pulls the hole
down arter him.”

“Oh!” sighed Dot, disappointedly.

“It’s one o’ them wonders of natur’ ye hear tell on. I never could
understand it myself—like some ignerant landlubbers believin’ the
world is flat! I know it’s round, ’cos I been down one side o’ it an’
come up the other!

“As for science, an’ them things, shipmets, I don’t know nothin’ ’bout
’em. I digs clams; I don’t pester none erbout how they grows——”

And he promptly dug another and then a third. The girls watched him,
fascinated at his skill. Nor did the “peg-leg” seem to trouble him at
all in his work.

“Please, sir,” asked Tess, after some moments, “how did you come to
lose your leg—your really truly one, I mean?”

“Pi-_rats_,” declared the man, with an unmoved countenance.
“Pi-_rats_, shipmet—on the Spanish Main.”

“Oh!” breathed both girls together. Somehow that expression was
faintly reminiscent to them. Agnes had a book about pirates, and she
had read out loud in the evenings at the sitting-room table, at the
old Corner House. Tess and Dot were not aware that “the Spanish Main”
had been cleared of pirates, some years before this husky-voiced old
clam-digger was born.

The clam-digger offered no details about his loss, and Tess and Dot
felt some delicacy about asking further questions. Besides, Tom Jonah
came along just then and evinced some distaste for the company of the
roughly dressed one-legged man. Of course, he could not dig clams in
his best clothes, as Tess pointed out; but Tom Jonah had confirmed
doubts about all ill-dressed people. So the girls accompanied the dog
back towards the tents.

The big girls had been out in the boat and Ruth had left Agnes to
bring up the oars and crab nets, as well as to moor the boat, while
she hastened to get dinner.

The tide being on the turn they could not very well pull the boat up
to the mooring post; but there was a long painter by which it could be
tied to the post. Agnes, however, carried the oars up to the tent and
then forgot about the rest of her task as she dipped into a new book.

Tess and Dot came to the empty boat and at once climbed in. Tom Jonah
objected at first. He ran about on the sand—even plunged into the
water a bit, and put both front paws on the gunwale.

If ever a dog said, “Please, _please_, little mistresses, get out of
the boat!” old Tom Jonah said it!

But the younger Corner House girls paid no attention to him. They went
out to the stern, which was in quite deep water, and began clawing
overboard with the crab nets. With a whine, the dog leaped into the
craft.

Now, whether the jar the dog gave it as he jumped into the boat, or
his weight when he joined the girls in the stern, set the cedar boat
afloat, will never be known. However, it slid into the water and
floated free.

“We can catch some crabs, too, maybe, Tess,” Dot said.

Neither of them noticed that the oars were gone, but had they been in
the boat, Tess or Dot could not have used them—much. And surely Tom
Jonah could not row.

They did not even notice that they were afloat until the tide, which
was just at the turn, twisted the boat’s nose about and they began
drifting up the river.

“Oh, my, Dot!” gasped Tess. “Where are we going?”

“Oh-oo-ee!” squealed Dot, raking wildly with one of the nets. “I
almost caught one.”

“But we’re adrift, Dot!” cried Tess.

The younger girl was not so much impressed at first. “Oh, I guess
they’ll come for us,” she said.

“But Ruth and Aggie can’t reach us—’nless they swim.”

“Won’t we float ashore again? We floated out here,” said Dot.

She refused to be frightened, and Tess bethought her that she had no
right to let her little sister be disturbed too much. She was old
enough herself, however, to see that there was peril in this
involuntary voyage. The tide was coming in strongly and the boat was
quickly passing the bend. Before either Tess or Dot thought to cry out
for help, they were out of sight of the camp and there was nobody to
whom to call.

Tom Jonah had crouched down in the stern, with his head on his paws.
He felt that he had done his duty. He had not allowed the two small
girls to go without him on this voyage. He was with them; what harm
could befall?

“I—I guess Alice would like to go ashore, Tess,” hesitated Dot, at
last, having seized her doll and sat down upon one of the seats. The
boat was jumping a good deal as the little waves slapped her, first on
one side and then on the other. Without anybody steering she made a
hard passage of it.

“I’d like to get ashore myself, child,” snapped Tess. “But I don’t see
how we are going to do it.”

“Oh, Tess! are we going to be carried ’way out to sea?”

“Don’t be a goosey! We’re going _up_ the river, not _down_,” said the
more observant Tess.

“Well, then!” sighed Dot, relieved. “It isn’t so bad, is it? Of
course, we’ll stop somewhere.”

“But it will soon be dinnertime,” said her sister. “And I guess Ruth
and Aggie won’t know where we’ve gone to.”

In fact, nobody about the tent colony had noticed the cedar boat
floating away with the two girls in it—to say nothing of the dog!




CHAPTER XVI

THE GYPSIES AGAIN


When Ruth shouted to Agnes from the kitchen, where she was frying
crabs, to call the children, Agnes dropped the book she had been
reading and remembered for the first time that she had neglected to
tie the boat.

“Oh, Ruth!” she shrieked. “See what I’ve done!”

Ruth came to the opening in the front of the tent, flushed and
disheveled, demanding:

“Well, _what_? This old fat snaps so!”

“The boat!” cried Agnes.

Ruth stared up and down the shore. There were other boats drawn up on
the sand and a few moored beyond low-water mark; but their boat was
not in sight.

“Have you let it get away, Agnes Kenway?” Ruth demanded.

“Well! you don’t suppose I went down there and pushed it off, do you?”

“This is no laughing matter——”

“I guess I—I’m not laughing,” gulped Agnes. “It—it’s go-o-one! See!
the tide is flowing in and I forgot to tie it.”

She was a little mixed here; it was the boat she had forgotten to tie.

“So,” murmured Ruth; “if the boat had been tied, the tide wouldn’t
have carried it away,” and she had no intention of punning, either!
“_Now_ what shall we do? That boat cost seventy-five dollars, the man
said.”

“Oh, Ruthie!”

“What will Mr. Howbridge say?”

“Oh, Ruthie!”

“No use crying about it,” said the oldest Corner House girl, with
decision. “_That_ won’t help.”

“But—but it’s gone out to sea.”

“Nonsense! The tide has taken it up the river. It’s gone round the
bend. I hope it won’t be smashed on the rocks, that’s all. We must go
after it.”

“How?” asked the tearful Agnes.

“Get another boat, of course. But let’s eat. The children will be
hungry, and—— My goodness! the crabs are burning up!” and she ran
back into the tent. “Get Tess and Dot, and tell them to hurry!” she
called from inside.

But Tess and Dot were not to be found. The beach just then was
practically deserted. It was the dinner hour and the various campers
all had the sort of appetites that demands meals served promptly on
time.

Agnes ran to the other tents in Camp Willowbend; but her small sisters
were not with any of the neighbors. It was strange. They had been
forbidden to go out of sight of their own tent when neither Ruth nor
Agnes was with them; and Tess and Dot were remarkably obedient
children.

“I certainly do not understand it,” Ruth said, when Agnes brought back
the news.

At that moment a shuffling step sounded outside the tent and a husky
voice demanded:

“Any clams terday, lady? Fresh clams—jest dug. Ten cents a dozen;
two-bits for fifty; half a dollar a hundred. Fresh clams!”

“Oh!” cried Agnes, springing to the tent entrance so suddenly that the
wooden-legged clam-man started back in surprise. “Oh! have you seen my
sisters anywhere on the beach?”

“Hel-_lo_!” growled the startled man. “I dunno ’bout thet thar,
shipmet. What kind o’ sisters be they?”

“Two little girls,” said Ruth, eagerly, joining Agnes at the opening.
“One of them carried a doll in her arms. She is dark. The bigger one
is fair.”

The saltish old fellow chuckled deep in his hairy throat. “Guess I
seen ’em, shipmets,” he said. “Them’s the leetle gals that didn’t know
clam-holes.”

“Well! what became of them?” demanded the impatient Agnes.

“Why——I dug ’em, shipmet, an’ they air in this i-den-ti-cal basket
now,” declared the clam-digger.

“Well!” gasped Agnes, behind her hand. “Maybe the children didn’t know
clam-holes; but _he_ doesn’t know beans!”

Ruth asked again: “We mean, what became of the girls, sir?”

“I couldn’t tell ye, shipmet. D’ye want any clams?” pursued this man
of one idea. “Ten cents a dozen; two-bits for——”

“I’ll buy some clams—yes,” cried Ruth, in some desperation. “But tell
us where you last saw our sisters, sir?”

“How many you want, shipmet?” demanded the quite unmoved old fellow.

“Two!” cried Agnes. “There were only two of them. Two little
girls——Oh!”

Ruth had pinched her, and now said, calmly: “Please count out a
hundred for us, sir. Here is fifty cents. And please tell us where you
saw our little sisters?”

“I seed two small gals, shipmet, down on the flats yonder,” said the
clam digger, setting down his basket and squatting with the wooden leg
stretched out before him. He began to busily count the clams onto the
little platform before the tent.

“Where did they go, sir?” asked Ruth.

“I didn’t take no pertic’lar notice of ’em, shipmet. They had a
dratted dog with them——”

“Oh! Tom Jonah is with them. Then they _can’t_ be lost,” gasped Agnes.

“Las’ time I ’member of cockin’ me eye at ’em,” declared the old clam
digger, “they was inter a boat right down here below this tent. The
dog was with ’em.”

He counted out the last clam, took his fifty cents, and departed. The
two older Corner House girls looked at each other. Agnes was very
white.

“Do—do you suppose they drifted away in the boat?” she whispered.

“I expect so,” agreed Ruth. “Come on, Ag. We’ll go up beyond the bend
and see if we can sight the boat.”

“Oh! if they fall overboard——”

“Tom Jonah would bring them both ashore if they did, I believe,” said
Ruth, though her voice shook a little. “Do you want something to eat
before you go?”

Agnes looked at her scornfully. “I don’t ever want to eat again if Dot
and Tess aren’t found,” she sobbed. “Come on!”

“We’ll take something along to eat, if you don’t want to eat here,”
Ruth said, sensibly. “The children will be hungry enough when we find
them, you may be sure.”

“_If_ we find them,” suggested the desperate Agnes.

“Don’t talk like a goose, Ag!” exclaimed the older sister. “Of course
we’ll find them. They’ve only drifted away.”

“But you said yourself the boat might be smashed against the rocks.”

“Tom Jonah’s with them,” said Ruth, confidently. “He could live in the
water altogether, you know. Don’t be worried about the children being
drowned—— Oh, Agnes!”

The change in her sister’s voice startled Agnes, who had gone into the
back part of the tent. She ran out to where Ruth was wrapping the
fried soft-shell crabs in a sheet of brown paper.

Ruth was staring through the open flap of the tent. Outside, about
where the clam digger had stood a few moments before, was the tall,
scarred-faced Gypsy tramp that they had seen at the nomads’ camp the
day they came to Pleasant Cove!

“Oh, Ruth!” echoed Agnes, coming to Ruth’s side.

But the older sister quickly recovered her self-possession. Her first
thought was:

“If Tom Jonah were only here!”

Ruth went to the door. The man leered at her and doffed his old cap.

“Good day, little lady,” he said. “She remember me—Big Jim—heh?”

“I remember you,” Ruth said, shortly.

“Ver’ proud,” declared the Gypsy, bowing again.

“What do you want?” asked the oldest Corner House girl, with much more
apparent courage than she really felt.

“You remember Zaliska—heh?” asked the man, shrewdly.

“I remember her,” said Ruth.

“Little lady seen Zaliska since that day—heh?”

“What do you want to know for?” demanded Ruth, puzzled, yet standing
her ground. She remembered in a flash all her suspicions regarding the
young girl who masqueraded as the Gypsy Queen.

“Zaliska come here, heh?” said the man, doggedly, and with something
besides curiosity in his narrow eyes.

“I don’t know why I should tell you if she had been here,” declared
Ruth, while Agnes clung to her arm in fear.

“The little lady would fool Big Jim. No! We want find Zaliska.”

“Don’t come here for her,” said Ruth, sharply. “She’s not here.”

“But she been here—heh?” repeated the fellow. “She come here like she
was dressed at the camp—heh? Then she go away different—heh?”

Ruth knew well enough what he meant. He hinted that the masquerading
girl had come here to see Ruth, and discarded her queen’s garments and
slipped away in her own more youthful character.

“I’m not sure that I know what you mean,” she said to the evil-faced
man. “But one thing I can tell you—and you can believe it. I have not
seen Zaliska since that day we girls came by your camp.”

“Ha! she come here to see you——”

“No. She went to the hotel and to a friend’s house in the village,”
said Ruth, “asking for me. I did not see her. She has not come here.”

“Huh!” grunted the man, and backed away, doubtfully.

“Now we are busy and you must not trouble us any more,” declared Ruth,
hurriedly. “Come, Agnes!”

“He’ll come in the tent and search it,” whispered Agnes, in her
sister’s ear.

“I will speak to Mr. Stryver. He is here to-day,” said Ruth,
mentioning a neighbor in the camp.

“Big Jim,” as the Gypsy called himself, had backed away from the tent,
but he watched the departing girls with lowering gaze. At Mr.
Stryver’s tent Ruth halted long enough to tell the gentleman to keep
his eye on the Gypsy man who was hanging about the camp.

“The women were here to sell baskets and such like truck while you
girls were off crabbing, this morning,” said Mrs. Stryver. “It gives
me the shivers to have those folks around. I think we ought to have
these tent camps policed.”

“I’ll ’tend to this fellow,” promised Mr. Stryver, who was a burly
man, and not afraid of anything.

Ruth hurried Agnes away toward the bend without another word.

“Why didn’t you tell them Tess and Dot were lost?” asked Agnes,
gulping down a sob.

“I don’t want anybody to know it, if we can help,” returned Ruth. “It
just looks as though we didn’t take sufficient care of them.”

“It—it was all my fault,” choked Agnes. “If I had tied the boat as
you told me——”

“It doesn’t matter whose fault it is,” said Ruth, quickly. “Or, if it
is anybody’s fault! We don’t want folks to say that the Corner House
girls from Milton don’t know enough to take care of each other while
they are under canvas.”




CHAPTER XVII

ON WILD GOOSE ISLAND


“My!” Tess gasped, sitting in the stern of the drifting boat, “how
fast the shores go past, Dot! We’re going up the river awfully quick.”

“And so j-j-jerky!” exclaimed her sister, clinging to the Alice-doll.

“You aren’t really afraid, are you, Dot?”

“No-o. Only for Alice. She’s always been weakly, you know, since that
awful time she got buried alive,” said Dot, seriously. “And if she
should get wet and catch her death of cold——”

“But you mustn’t drop her overboard,” warned Tess.

“Do you s’pose I _would_, Tess Kenway?” demanded Dot, quite hurt by
the suggestion.

“If she did fall overboard, Tom Jonah would save her, of course,” went
on Tess.

“Oh! don’t you say such things,” cried Dot. “And _do_, please, stop
the boat from jerking so!”

“I—I guess it wants to be steered,” Tess said.

The tiller ropes were at hand and Tess had observed Ruth and Agnes use
them. She began experimenting with them and soon got the hang of using
the rudder. But as the boat was propelled, only by the tide, it
_would_ “wabble.”

Tom Jonah watched all the small girls did with his keen eyes. But he
scarcely moved. The boat floated on and on. Tess did not know how to
work the boat ashore—indeed, caught as the craft was in the strong
tide-rip, it would have taken considerable exertion with the oars to
have driven it to land.

There chanced to be no other boats beyond the bend on this day. On
either hand there were farms, but the houses were too far from the
shores for the dwellers therein to notice the plight of the two small
girls and the big dog in the bobbing cedar boat.

The shores at the river’s edge were wooded for the most part, as was
the long and narrow island in the middle of the river, not far ahead.
This latter was called Wild Goose Island, as Tess and Dot knew.

“Maybe the boat will go ashore there,” said Dot, more cheerfully.

“There are berries on that island,” cried Tess. “Only they were not
ripe when we were there last week.” She was beginning to feel hungry;
it was past midday.

“But we can’t walk back to the tent from there,” objected Dot.

“No-o,” admitted Tess. “It’ll be land, just the same!”

But the tide swept the cedar boat out from the lower end of the island
and up the northern channel. It was this fact that hid the drifting
boat from the anxious eyes of Ruth and Agnes when they came around the
bend, expecting to see the missing craft. The island hid it.

Wild Goose Island was more than half a mile long. In the channel where
the boat floated, the current of the river and the inflowing tide
began to battle.

There were eddies that seized the boat and swept it in circles. The
surface of the channel was rippled by small waves. The boat bobbed
every-which-way, for Tess could not control the rudder.

“Oh, dear me!” gasped Dot. “I—I am afraid my Alice-doll will be sick.
Do—don’t you s’pose we can get ashore, Tess?”

But Tess did not see how they could do that, although the boat was now
and then swept very close to the shore of the island.

The island was a famous picnicking place; but there were no pleasure
seekers there to-day. The shore seemed deserted as the girls were
swept on by the resistless tide.

Suddenly Dot stood right up and squealed—pointing at the island. Tom
Jonah lifted his head and barked.

“There’s somebody, Tess!” declared Dot.

The bigger Corner House girl had seen the face break through the
fringe of bushes on the island shore. It was a dark, beautiful face,
and it was a girl’s.

“Oh! oh! Let’s call her,” gasped Tess. “She’ll help us.”

The two small Kenways had a strong belief in the goodness of humanity
at large. They expected that anybody who saw their plight would come
to their rescue if possible.

For fully a minute, however, the girl in the bushes of Wild Goose
Island did not come out into the open. Tess and Dot shouted again and
again, while Tom Jonah lifted up his head and bayed most mournfully.

If the girl on the island did not want general attention attracted to
the place, it behooved her to come out of concealment and try to
pacify the drifting trio in the cedar boat.

Her face was very red when she reappeared in an open place on the
shore. The distance between her and the boat, which was now caught in
a small eddy, was only a few yards.

“What’s the matter with you?” she demanded, in rather a sharp tone.

“We—we can’t stop the boat,” responded Tess.

“We want to get ashore,” added Dorothy,

“How did you get out there?” asked the strange girl. She was older
than Ruth, and although she was very pretty, Tess and Dot were quite
sure they did not like her—much!

“We got in it, and it floated away with us,” said Tess.

“Where from?” asked the girl on shore.

“Oh! ’way down the river. ’Round that turn. We live at Willowbend Camp
with Ruth and Aggie.”

“Ruth _Who_?” the other demanded, sharply.

“Our sister, Ruth Kenway,” said Tess.

The girl on the island was silent for a moment, while the boat turned
lazily in the eddy. It now was headed up stream again, when she said:

“Is that dog good for anything?”

“Tom Jonah?” cried Tess and Dot together. “Why, he’s the best dog that
ever _was_,” Dot added.

“Does he know anything?” insisted the strange girl.

“Uncle Rufus says he’s just as knowin’ as any human,” Tess said,
impressively.

“Does he mind?” pursued the girl on the shore.

“Oh, yes,” said Tess. “He’ll sit up and beg—and shakes hands—and
lies down and rolls over—and——”

“Say! those tricks won’t help you any,” cried the other. “Can you make
him swim ashore here?”

“Why—ee—I don’t know,” stammered Tess.

“We wouldn’t want to let you have Tom Jonah,” Dorothy hastened to
explain.

“Goodness knows, _I_ don’t want him,” said the big girl, still tartly.
“But if he can swim ashore with the end of that rope you have coiled
there in the bow of your boat, tied to his collar, he may be of some
use.”

“Oh, yes!” cried Tess, scrambling toward the bow at once.

“See that the other end is fast to your boat,” commanded the girl on
the island.

It was. Tess quickly knotted the free end of the long painter to Tom
Jonah’s collar.

“Now send him ashore, child!” cried the big girl.

Tom Jonah was looking up at Tess with his wonderfully intelligent
eyes. He seemed to understand just what was expected of him when the
rope was tied to his collar.

“Go on, Tom Jonah! Overboard!” cried Tess, firmly.

“He—he’ll get all wet, Tess,” objected Dot, plaintively.

“That won’t hurt him, Dot,” explained her sister. “You know he loves
the water.”

“Come on, here!” cried the girl on the island, snapping her fingers.
“Push him overboard.”

But Tom Jonah did not need such urging. With his forepaws on the
gunwale of the boat he barked several times. The boat tipped a little
and Dot screamed, clutching the Alice-doll tighter to her bosom.

“Go on, Tom Jonah!” shouted Tess. “You’re rocking the boat!”

The big dog leaped over the gunwale into the river, leaving the light
craft tossing in a most exciting fashion. Some water even slopped over
the side.

“Come on, sir! come on!” shouted the girl ashore.

Tom Jonah swam directly for the beach where she stood. The line
uncoiled freely behind him, slipping into the water. It was long
enough to reach the shore where the big girl stood; but none too long.

The sag of the rope in the water began to trouble Tom Jonah, strong as
he was. Quickly the girl drew off her shoes and stockings and waded in
to meet the laboring dog.

“Come on, sir! now we’ll get them!” she urged, laying hold of the
line.

The dog scrambled ashore, barking loudly. The line was taut and the
boat had swung around, tugging on the other end like a thing of life.

“Now we have them!” cried the girl.

She pulled hard on the rope. Tom Jonah, seeing what she was doing,
caught the rope in his strong jaws, and set back to pull, too. Tess
and Dot screamed with delight.

As the big girl slowly drew in the rope the dog backed up the beach,
and so the cedar boat, with its two remaining passengers, came to
land.

“Oh, dear me! Oh, dear me!” gasped Dot, standing in the bow of the
boat. “I’m so glad to get ashore. And so’s my Alice-doll,” she added,
seriously.

Tess helped her sister to jump down upon the sand and then followed,
herself. Tom Jonah dropped the rope and bounded about them, barking
his satisfaction. But the strange girl was looking up and down the
river, and over at the opposite shore, with a mind plainly disturbed.

“Come on, now!” she said, sharply. “Unfasten the rope from that dog’s
collar. We’ll keep _that_. It may come in handy.”

“Don’t you want it to pull the boat up on the beach?” asked Tess, as
she obeyed the command.

The strange girl was already unfastening the rope from the ring in the
bow of the boat. She threw the line ashore and then pushed the boat
off with such vigor that she ran knee deep into the river again.

“Oh! oh!” squealed Dot. “You’ll lose our boat.”

“I want to lose it,” declared the girl, coming back very red in the
face from her exertions. “I got you kids ashore, ’cause you might have
been tipped over, or hurt in some way. I’m not going to be bothered by
that boat.”

“But that’s Ruthie’s boat,” exclaimed Tess.

“I can’t help it! You young ones go into the bushes there and sit
down. Keep quiet, too. Take the dog with you and keep _him_ quiet.
Don’t let him run about, or bark. If he does I’ll tie him to a tree
and muzzle him.”

“Why—why, I don’t think that’s very nice of you,” said Tess, who was
too polite, and had too deep a sense of gratitude, to say just what
she really thought of this conduct on the part of the strange girl.
“We might have saved the boat for Ruth.”

“And it would give me dead away,” declared the big girl, angrily. “You
children be satisfied that I took you ashore. Now keep still!”

“I—I don’t believe I like her very much, Tess,” Dot whispered again.

The older Corner House girl was not only puzzled by the strange girl’s
actions and words, but she was somewhat frightened. She and Dot sat
down among the bushes, where they were completely hidden from the
river and the opposite shore, and called Tom Jonah to them.

He lay at their feet. He had shaken himself comparatively dry, and now
he put his head on his paws and went to sleep.

“Well,” sighed Tess, caressing the dog’s head. “I’m glad we have him
with us.”




CHAPTER XVIII

THE SEARCH


Ruth and Agnes went around the wooded point, called “Willowbend,” and
looked up the river. As we already know, the drifting boat, with Tess
and Dot and Tom Jonah in it, had gone out of sight on the other side
of Wild Goose Island.

“It never came this way, Ruth!” groaned the frightened Agnes. “They’ve
drifted out to sea, just as I said.”

“Nothing of the kind,” Ruth declared, bound to keep up her sister’s
courage, and knowing well that her conscience was punishing her
cruelly. “The tide is coming in. They were bound to float up the
river. But maybe the boat’s gone ashore somewhere.”

“Or it’s sunk,” said the lugubrious Agnes.

“Now you stop that, Aggie Kenway!” cried Ruth, stamping her foot. “I
won’t have it. With Tom Jonah those children would not easily get into
trouble.”

“They could fall out of the boat,” urged Agnes, wiping her eyes.

“They’d not be foolish enough to rock the boat. It’s all right, I tell
you. I _did_ expect to see the boat from this spot; but it’s floated
into some cove somewhere. The children are safe enough——”

“You don’t know!” blubbered Agnes.

“Keep still! Yes, I _do_ know—I know as well as I want to. But we’ll
have to ask for help to find them.”

“What kind of help?” asked Agnes.

“We’ll get Mr. Stryver’s motorboat,” said the oldest Corner House
girl, with decision.

As they went back around the bend they heard a chorus of shouts from
the camp. Agnes was startled, being in a nervous state, anyway.

“What is that, Ruth? The Gypsies?” she demanded.

“If it is, then the Gypsies have adopted the Milton high school yell.
Don’t you recognize it?” returned Ruth. “The boys have arrived.”

“Neale O’Neil!”

“I suppose Neale is with them.”

“He will help us,” cried the delighted Agnes, sure in the ability of
Neale O’Neil to do almost anything.

“Well—I suppose he may,” admitted Ruth, slowly.

Ruth had made no mistake in identifying the school yell of their boy
friends. There was a crowd of boys at the two big tents reserved for
Joe Eldred and his friends. They had just come on the auto-stage.

Already an American flag and the school pennant were being raised on
the flag-pole before the tents. The scene at Willowbend Camp had been
a most quiet one ten minutes before; now it seemed to be alive in
every part, and the boys from Milton were all over it.

They were like a herd of young colts let loose in a new pasture. They
got the flags up before the girls came back, and then began running
races, and playing leap-frog on the sand. The midday heat made no
difference to them.

“Doesn’t that water look inviting?” shouted Ben Truman to Joe and some
of the bigger boys. “When do we go in swimming, Joe?”

“_You_ can go when you like, Bennie,” returned Eldred.

“I’d like right now,” declared the youngster.

“Clothes and all, I suppose, Ben?” drawled Neale O’Neil.

“What’s clothes? I’m not afraid to go in just as I am.”

“I dare you, Ben!” shouted another of the boys, knowing the spirit of
Truman.

“Done!” exclaimed Ben, and sprang away toward the in-coming tide. He
splashed half-knee deep into the river before the others could call
him back. He probably had no intention of going any deeper; but
inadvertently he stepped into one of the holes the wooden-legged man
had recently made when he dug for clams there, and over Ben pitched
upon his nose!

There was a great shout of laughter. Ben was submerged—every bit! He
came up blowing like a porpoise.

“Come on in, fellows! the water’s fine!” he gasped, not embarrassed by
the accident.

“Thank you. We’ll wait till the bathing suits arrive,” returned Neale.
“Hello! Here are the Corner House girls—two of them, at least.”

He hurried forward to greet Ruth and Agnes. The other boys simmered
down a little when they observed the girls; most of them doffed their
caps politely, but only Joe and Neale knew Ruth and Agnes very well.

“Oh, Neale!” was the latter’s greeting to her boy friend. “Don’t tell
the other fellows, but Tess and Dot are lost.”

“Great goodness, Ag! You don’t mean it?” cried Neale, keenly troubled
by her statement.

“It’s not as bad as _that_,” Ruth interposed. “They are out in our
boat with Tom Jonah.”

“I knew you had him down here. He’ll take care of them,” said Neale,
with confidence.

“Yes, I know,” agreed Ruth. “But they all got in the boat unbeknown to
Aggie and me, and the tide’s carried them up the river.”

“You don’t _know_!” burst out Agnes.

“Well, they couldn’t have drifted out into the cove, that’s sure!”
returned the older Corner House girl. “I’m going to get Mr. Stryver’s
motorboat. Will you take us out in it and look for the children,
Neale? You can run a motorboat, can’t you?”

“Sure! And I’ll do anything I can to help find the children,” declared
Neale O’Neil. “Now, don’t you girls turn on the sprinklers——”

“Who’s crying?” gulped Agnes, angrily.

“You are—pretty nearly. And your eyes are all red.”

“Hay fever,” sniffed Agnes, trying to joke.

“I’m going to get the boat right away. Come on, Neale,” cried Ruth,
and she started for the Stryver tent. “I’m worried about those
children,” she added, over her shoulder. “There are Gypsies about.”

She hurried on and Neale took Agnes by the elbow and led her out of
all possible earshot of the other boys.

“Buck up, Aggie,” he said, gruffly, as a boy will. “You’ve been a good
little sport—always. Don’t blubber about it.”

“But it was I who forgot to tie the boat,” Agnes said.

“Tell me about it,” urged Neale. So Agnes gave him the particulars.
“Funny how the boat should have drifted out of sight so quickly,” was
the boy’s comment.

“Isn’t it? But it’s go-o-one——”

“There, there! We’ll find it and the children will be all right,” he
assured her.

Ruth came running with the key to the padlock that moored the _Nimble
Shanks_ to the mooring stake. They got out to her—just the two girls
and Neale—in a dory.

The _Nimble Shanks_ was a blue boat with a high prow and long,
sweeping lines to the low stern. It was not a large boat, but was
built for speed. The engine and steering-gear were amidships and were
arranged so that one man could handle the craft.

Neale was naturally of a mechanical turn, as well as an athlete. He
had built a kerosene engine during the winter, with some assistance
from Mr. Con Murphy, the shoemaker with whom he lived in Milton.
Moreover, he had driven a boat just like this one of Mr. Stryver’s on
the Milton river.

While Ruth was unlocking the chain of the _Nimble Shanks_, and
fastening the dory in its place, Neale whirled the fly-wheel and
caught the ignition spark; immediately the exhaust began to pop and
Neale shouted:

“All free, there, Ruth?”

“Let her go, Neale!” returned Agnes, eagerly. “I can’t wait, it seems
to me.”

“Sit tight, then, ladies,” said Neale, as Ruth scrambled aft. “I
believe this craft can be made to travel.”

The girls obeyed as the _Nimble Shanks_ started. She shot right out
into the middle of the river, and the wave thrown up by her wedge-like
bow rose higher and higher on either hand. Actually, when the
motorboat had been running for five minutes, the girls in the
sternsheets seemed sitting at a much lower level than the surface of
the river.

“Goodness! if this boat stopped suddenly we’d be drowned by that
wave,” gasped Ruth.

Neale headed up the river in a grand curve. They could see the shores
on either hand. The boys ashore cheered their departure, though they
did not know their errand.

They shot by the wooded bend like an express train. The girls kept
watch on either hand for the boat. They hoped to see her rocking in
some cove along one shore or the other.

But it was Neale himself who first sighted the drifting craft. The
motorboat took the south channel in passing Wild Goose Island. Neale
suddenly brought the speed of the craft down to one-half.

“There’s a boat ahead,” he said to the girls. “It appears to be empty.
Stand up and see if it’s the one.”

Ruth rose and clung to Agnes’ shoulder to steady herself. She saw the
empty cedar boat, bobbing on the little waves beyond the far point of
Wild Goose Island.

“It’s her!” she said, breathlessly. “But where are the children?”

“We’ll find out,” said Neale, quickly. “Sit down again.”

“And Tom Jonah?” urged Ruth.

“Make up your mind that wherever the children are, _he_ is, too,” said
Neale, and he let the _Nimble Shanks_ out again, and Ruth tumbled
promptly into her seat.

The motorboat fairly leaped ahead. In five minutes they were near the
empty boat, and Neale shut off the engine entirely. Under the momentum
she had gained she slid right up beside the tossing cedar boat.

“Oh, oh!” groaned Agnes. “Where _have_ they gone?”

“Not overboard, that’s sure,” said Neale, cheerfully. “They would have
overturned the boat.”

“I—don’t—know,” began Ruth.

“Oh, Ruth!” shrieked Agnes. “Maybe they were not in her after all.”

“But that clam man said he saw them.”

“He didn’t see them in the boat when it was afloat,” said Agnes,
clinging to the safer possibility.

“I know. But where else did they go?”

“Down the beach, maybe,” said Neale, slowly.

“The Gypsies have gotten them!” exclaimed Agnes, in despair.

“Stop it, Ag!” cried Ruth, shaking her sister. “You can think up the
most perfectly awful things——”

“Bet they got out of the boat on the shore somewhere, and let it drift
away again,” suggested Neale, rather feebly.

“It wouldn’t be like Tess to do such a foolish thing,” said Ruth,
shaking her head.

“They didn’t have anything to tie the boat up with. There’s no painter
in her,” said the observant Neale.

“Of course there’s a painter!” cried Agnes, jumping up. “A nice long
one——”

“Where is it?” demanded the boy.

“Oh, Ruth! _That’s_ gone!” gasped Agnes.

“Say!” said Neale, very seriously; “ropes don’t come untied of
themselves. Sure it was fastened to the boat?”

“To that ring,” Ruth declared, confidently.

“And little Tess, or Dot, wouldn’t think to untie it themselves—I’m
sure,” the boy observed. “They are with somebody who has taken them
out of the boat—be sure of that.”

“You only—only say so to comfort us,” sobbed Agnes.

“Oh, Ag! stop being a ‘leaky vessel’!” cried Neale, with a boy’s
exasperation at a girl’s tears. “Crying won’t help you any.”

Ruth had been examining the cedar boat, carefully. There was a little
water in the bottom of it. She knew it did not leak. And floating on
the water was a tiny russet leather slipper.

“That belongs to Dot’s Alice-doll!” she cried, leaning over the
gunwale and fishing for the slipper. “They _were_ in the boat.”

“We knew that before. The clam man said so,” sniffed Agnes.

“But they got out in a hurry. Otherwise Dot would have noticed that
the doll had lost her slipper.”

“That seems reasonable,” admitted Neale O’Neil. “But what’s become of
them? Where did they go? Where are they now?”

He was staring all about the river, while the two boats gently rubbed
together, bobbing and courtesying on the tide.

“Don’t see anybody on the shores—and not another boat in sight,” the
boy added.

“Maybe they went ashore on the island?” suggested Agnes, looking back.

“There’s nobody there,” said her sister, looking back, too. “Not a
soul.”

“Guess you’re right. If there were anybody besides the girls there
they’d have some kind of a boat, and we’d see it.”

“That’s so, Neale,” Ruth said. “And surely any grown person who
rescued the girls wouldn’t have let the boat drift away again.”

The trio of searchers gazed at each other in trouble and amazement.
They could not explain this mystery in any satisfactory way.




CHAPTER XIX

A STARTLING MEETING


Tess and Dot, sitting in the middle of a brush clump on Wild Goose
Island, never saw the blue motorboat with their sisters and Neale
O’Neil in it, fly past.

But the dark-faced girl, dressed in her bedraggled Gypsy finery, saw
the _Nimble Shanks_, for she was on the watch at one side or the other
of the island, all the time.

She observed the motorboat overtake the drifting craft, and saw Neale
carry a line aboard the latter and then start up the engine of the
power boat again. The two boats went up the lake at a fair pace; but
the searching party could not travel so fast now, for fear of swamping
the towed boat.

“I don’t think this is much fun,” said Dot, plaintively, when the big
girl came back to them. “It’s hot here—and I’m hungry—and my
Alice-doll has lost one of her shoes.”

“We’ll go up into the woods and pick some berries,” said the strange
girl, not unkindly. “I know where there are some strawberries—and
they’re just as sweet.”

“Oh! that will be fine. I _do_ love strawberries,” declared Dot,
easily appeased.

Tess was more troubled than her sister by this strange situation. She
felt, somehow, as though the big girl were holding them prisoners. Yet
she could not understand _why_.

She got up from the ground and at once Tom Jonah started up, barking
and bounding about.

“Stop that dog!” exclaimed the big girl, crossly. “Make him walk
beside you. I’ll tie him up,” she threatened.

“Then he’ll howl _awful_,” cried Dot. “We tried that once at home.
Don’t you ’member, Tess?”

“Well, you keep him still,” snapped the big girl.

At a word from Tess the old dog drooped his tail and fell in behind
them, in a most subdued manner. They went up through the thick woods
to the higher part of the island. At no point could the little
procession have been seen from the water.

There was a hillock up there, bare of trees, the southern side of
which was sown thickly with strawberries. The bed was rich in berries,
and how sweet and delicate was their flavor!

“Oh, _so_ much nicer than boughten berries!” Tess declared, forgetting
for the time all her anxiety.

Indeed, both of the Corner House girls were so busy satisfying their
appetites with strawberries that they forgot about the unpleasant side
to their adventure. Nor did they see the girl who had helped them
ashore from the boat, creep over the knoll to watch the motorboat and
its tow going down the river again, by way of the northern channel.

It was fully half past one. While Tess and Dot feasted in the wild
strawberry patch, their sisters and Neale O’Neil munched cold, fried
crabs on the _Nimble Shanks_.

It took a lot of berries to satisfy the healthy appetites of two girls
like Tess and Dot whose dinner had been indefinitely postponed. Dot
finally rolled right over in the shade, fast asleep, her dress and
fingers berry-stained and the last plump one she had picked between
her rosy lips!

The big girl came back and Tess whispered: “We’d best not wake her,
for she usually takes a nap afternoons. When she wakes up, I guess
we’d best be going. Ruth and Agnes will be _awfully_ scared for us.
And we’ve lost Ruth’s boat, too,” she added, disconsolately.

“How do you expect to get off this island?” demanded the strange girl.

“Why! how did you get _on_?” returned Tess.

“I paddled myself over on a raft of logs, early this morning before
anybody else was up,” said the girl, after a minute. “I wasn’t going
back till night. But if I keep you children all day there’ll be a big
row, I s’pose,” she added, sullenly.

“I expect there will,” was Tess’ calm response.

“They’d get me for kidnapping, like enough,” said the girl, as though
talking to herself. “Wish I hadn’t taken you out of that boat. But you
and the dog were raising an awful noise.”

“I’m sorry,” said Tess, politely, “if we have been a nuisance. But of
course we’ve got to get back to the tent before dark.”

“I s’pose so,” admitted the older girl.

“It’s funny Ruth hasn’t been up here before now looking for us,” Tess
observed.

The big girl turned her head so Tess should not see her face. “Suppose
she did not know you went sailing in the boat?” she said.

“Why! perhaps that is the reason,” Tess agreed. “They couldn’t have
seen us; for if they had, Ruth would have been after the boat in a
hurry.”

“Well,” said the strange girl, “I’ll have to get you across to the
river bank. I wasn’t going till night. But——”

“We are very much obliged to you,” Tess hastened to say. “But we
_couldn’t_ stay that long.”

“Oh, well! I’ll leave you children at a farmer’s over there. They’ll
have a telephone and they’ll get word to your sisters. You’ll get back
by suppertime.”

“Thank you,” Tess said, simply.

But she was more than a little disturbed in her mind. A raft of logs
did not encourage her to look forward to the trip to the mainland with
much pleasure.

Besides, the mystery regarding this pretty girl made Tess feel
_un_comfortable. Tess Kenway was quite old enough to know the
difference between right and wrong; and there was something about the
strange girl that was decidedly wrong!

Why had she come out here to Wild Goose Island in the early
morning—before anybody in the neighborhood was up? Was she a runaway?
Had she done something really _naughty_? and was she afraid to have
her folks find her?

It was all a great puzzle and Tess sighed and shook her head. Finally
she asked: “If you please, where _is_ the raft of logs?”

“Right down there,” said the girl, pointing to the southern side of
the island. “You can’t see it. I dragged it into shallow water and
covered it up with branches and brush.”

“Is—is it safe?” queried Tess.

“Well, it didn’t drown me coming over,” said the girl, with a short,
hard laugh. “But the logs came near parting.”

“Oh!”

“I’ll fix ’em before we start back. That painter off your boat will
help. We will be all right,” said the big girl, carelessly.

Dot awoke after a little, and so did Tom Jonah. The whole party went
down to the brush-fringed shore. Tess saw that the girl had hidden her
raft very ingeniously. And it was evident, too, that she hated to
leave the island so long before evening.

“Got myself in a nice mess!” the Corner House girl heard her mutter,
as she went about binding the three logs together more tightly with
the strong rope from the cedar boat.

She worked hard for half an hour, standing almost waist deep in the
water as she made the logs secure. It was not a heavy raft—nor was it
very safe looking, to Tess’ mind.

But fortunately Dot thought it would be great fun to ride on such a
craft, and Tess was too brave to say anything that would really
frighten Dorothy.

Tom Jonah became restless and wanted to wander about; but the big girl
was very sharp with him. “If he were my dog I’d make him mind better!”
she threatened. “If anything gives us away, it will be that dog.”

Tess did not understand this; and like Dot she felt hurt when anybody
criticised Tom Jonah. “Love me, love my dog” was the motto of the
younger Kenway sisters.

Finally the big girl pronounced the raft strong enough, and she waded
out of the water and put on her skirts again. “Now, get aboard there,”
she commanded. “If we’ve got to go, we might as well start. The tide
will be less strong now.”

Dot skipped aboard the raft with her Alice-doll, in great glee; Tess
followed more slowly. But when Tom Jonah tried to come, too, the big
girl, with the broken oar she used for a paddle, drove him back.

“It won’t hold him up, too!” she cried. “Get out!”

“Oh! don’t hurt Tom Jonah!” wailed Dot, shrilly. “Don’t!”

“You look out!” warned Tess. “He’ll grab you!”

Tom Jonah certainly _did_ grab the paddle. And he nearly wrenched it
from the hands of the big girl, strong as she was.

“He’ll tip us all over!” declared the girl, angrily, flushed and
breathing heavily. “Don’t you see how deep in the water we are? Any
little wave will come right over the logs and wet us.”

“Well!” cried Tess. “We’re barefooted. And we can’t leave Tom Jonah
behind.”

“He can swim, can’t he? Silly!” exclaimed the big girl. She pushed off
the raft suddenly, leaving the troubled dog on the bank. The current
caught the raft instantly and headed it down stream. The big girl
hurried to dip her paddle in the water on the lower side and swerve
the head of the raft around.

“Oh, Tom Jonah! Come! Come!” cried Dot, fearful that the dog would be
lost.

He plunged right in and swam to the rear of the raft. He did not try
to climb aboard, but he rested his nose on the logs and paddled
quietly behind. The big girl paid him no further attention. She had
her hands full as it was, keeping the raft from being swept down
stream.

The current of the river had now conquered the inflowing tide. The
force of the latter was spent; but the channel on this side of the
island was not rough. The little waves did not break over their feet
as yet.

The passage of the river was not, however, so hard. The handsome dark
girl was strong, and she plied the broken oar with vigor. In half an
hour they drew near to the tree-fringed southern bank.

The girls saw nobody along the shore, nor had any boat put out to meet
them. It was a day when all the farmers seemed to be busy in their
fields, and this was a wild spot toward which the raft had been aimed.

At last the end of the logs touched a shelving, narrow beach. The big
girl leaped off and commanded Tess and Dot to follow immediately.
Already Tom Jonah had scrambled ashore and was shaking himself, as a
dog will.

Suddenly the big dog uttered a throaty growl. None of the three girls
paid any attention. The strange girl was busy helping Tess and Dot to
land.

Again Tom Jonah uttered his warning, and then barked sharply.

“Shut up!” commanded the big girl, turning on him fiercely.

At that moment a man walked out of the wood. He was a fierce little
fellow with a black mustache and a dirty red tie. His velveteen suit
was worn and greasy and his hat broken.

The strange girl turned suddenly and saw him. She uttered a stifled
scream and the fellow folded his arms and said something to her
sternly in a language that afterwards Tess said “sounded like
powder-crackers exploding!”

The girl was terrified in the extreme. She looked from side to side as
though contemplating escape. The fellow took another stride toward
her.

And then Tom Jonah intervened. The big dog sprang with an awful growl,
hurling himself straight at the man’s chest. The fellow went over
backward and Tom Jonah held him down with both paws on his chest and
his bared teeth at the victim’s brown throat!




CHAPTER XX

THE FRANKFURTER MAN


Dot screamed shrilly; but Tess said, with conviction: “Well! I think
it serves him right. Let him holler. He had no business trying to
steal Ruthie’s chickens.”

For the young man that Tom Jonah held on the ground, and threatened so
dreadfully, was the very Gypsy that had gotten into the hen-coop at
the old Corner House in Milton, weeks before.

“Now, don’t you be afraid for him, Dot,” added Tess, quite calmly.
“Tom Jonah won’t really _bite_ him—not as long as he keeps still and
doesn’t try to get up——”

The fellow was moaning and begging just as he had when the big dog
“treed” him on the henhouse roof.

“Tak’ away dog! Tak’ away dog!” he begged.

“I don’t know why we should—do you, Dot?” pursued Tess, undisturbed.
“He was going to hurt _her_——”

Tess turned around. The strange girl who had helped them out of the
cedar boat and later had brought them to the river bank from Wild
Goose Island, had disappeared like a shadow!

“Why—why,” stammered Tess. “And she never said ‘Good-bye’!”

“I guess she was afraid of this man,” Dot said, eyeing the prostrate
and miserable victim of Tom Jonah’s attack without much pity. “What
shall we do with him?”

“Oh!” cried Tess, with a sudden sharp idea. “She _was_ afraid of him.
Let us help her. She helped us.”

“How will we?” inquired the smaller girl.

“Just let Tom Jonah hold him where he is. We will give that pretty
girl a good chance to get away. Won’t we?”

“That will be just the thing,” agreed Dot. “We can sit down and wait.
I hope it isn’t too long a walk to the camp, Tess. Somehow those
strawberries didn’t stay by me—much. I’m hungry right now!”

“We’ll keep him here a few minutes. Then we’ll find the road and start
right back home. I know the direction,” said Tess, with confidence.

The frightened Gypsy moaned and begged for them to call off the dog;
and Tom Jonah growled most frightfully every time the man squirmed.
Under other circumstances the girls would have been quite stricken
with pity for the poor man; but he had tried to steal Ruth’s hens, and
he had now frightened their new friend away, and, as Dot whispered,
“it served him right.”

Of course, they knew that the big dog would not really harm the
fellow.

After some fifteen minutes Tess got up and motioned Dot to do the
same. “We’d better start. The afternoon is going,” she said to her
younger sister. “And I guess it’s a long walk home. Come on, Tom
Jonah.”

The old dog lifted his head enquiringly. The muscles of his shoulders
and fore-paws relaxed.

“Come on!” commanded Tess. “Leave him alone. Let him up, Tom Jonah! I
guess he has been punished enough. Don’t you think so, Dot?”

The smaller girl nodded seriously, staring at the trembling Gypsy. “I
hope you won’t ever try to steal our Ruthie’s hens again,” she said,
pointedly.

The moment the fellow knew he was free, he scrambled up and dodged
into the bushes. He did not stay for a word.

“That big girl must have gotten away by this time,” Tess said,
cheerfully. “And he is too scared to catch her, anyway.”

Which was probably true. The two small girls walked away from the
river bank in the direction where they knew the auto-stage road lay.
Tom Jonah paced beside them, looking about suspiciously, and licking
his lips now and then with his red tongue.

It was remarkable how ferocious he had been with that Gypsy, and how
perfectly kind he was to the small Kenways. And nothing much could
have overtaken them just then that Tom Jonah would not have attacked.

They came out of the fringe of wood that bordered the river and
crossed a farmer’s fields. But the house was at a distance, and in the
other direction from Pleasant Cove and the camps; so the girls did not
go to that house.

In fact, Tess felt quite brave now that she was again on the mainland.
She was sure that they could easily find Willowbend Camp.

They came out into the hot, dusty road. It stretched before them as
bare as a tennis-court and as hot as a sea-beach. The trees that
bordered it were white with dust far up their trunks and the leaves of
their lower branches, too, were dust-covered.

This was the result of rapidly passing automobiles on the road; but
none of these vehicles was in sight now. The road seemed deserted.

Save for just one thing. Dot saw it before Tess.

“Oh, look!” the smaller girl cried. “Isn’t that a peanut man, Tess?
Don’t you wish you had a nickel?”

“He isn’t a peanut man,” said Tess, after a sharp look at the man
pushing the little wagon along the road before them.

“Isn’t he?” returned Dot, disappointedly.

“It’s a hot-frankfurter man,” declared Tess.

“Oh, Tess! a nickel would buy two frankfurter sandwiches,” gasped Dot.
“And I’m _so_ hungry.”

So was Tess. The thought of the steaming sausages lying on the split
Vienna roll, with a spoonful of mustard on each half-sausage, was
enough to make _any_ hungry person’s mouth water. At least, any hungry
person of the age of Tess and Dot Kenway.

Where the frankfurter man had been with his wagon away up this country
road, the girls did not know; but before they overtook him they
smelled the warm sausages and saw that the top of his boxlike wagon
was covered over with a glass case and that everything was clean about
his outfit.

So eager and hungry were they that Tess and Dot fairly trotted through
the hot dust to overtake the man. He was a short, sturdy man in a blue
shirt, khaki trousers, and a broad-brimmed straw hat. When Tom Jonah
bounded along beside him, sniffing in a friendly fashion, he turned
around and saw the girls.

“How-de-do!” he said, smiling. “You want a hot frankfurter, little
girls?”

“Yes, sir,” said Dot, frankly.

“Oh, we can’t, sir—not till we get to Willowbend Camp,” Tess hastened
to say, squeezing Dot’s hand admonishingly.

Dot’s lower lip trembled and the man asked:

“Why can’t you have ’em now?”

“We—we should have to ask Ruthie,” said Tess, slowly.

“Who’s she?”

“Our sister. We—we don’t carry any money in these old clothes. She’s
afraid we’ll lose it out of our pockets,” said Tess, honestly.

“Oh-ho!” exclaimed the man.

“But we’re awful hungry,” ventured Dot. “And so’s my Alice-doll. We
been shipwrecked, you see.”

“Shipwrecked?” asked the man, wonderingly.

“Not just _that_, Dot,” said Tess, doubtfully. “We were sort of
castaways.”

“Well, we lost our boat, didn’t we?” demanded Dot. “And isn’t that
being shipwrecked?” She was just hungry and tired enough to be rather
“touchy.”

“Tell me about it,” said the frankfurter man, as the girls and Tom
Jonah trotted along beside his little wagon.

So Tess—with much assistance from Dot—related their exciting
adventures since the wooden-legged clam-digger had shown them what it
was that squirted water up through the tiny holes on the clam-flat.

Sometimes the frankfurter man laughed, or chuckled; at other times he
looked quite grave. And finally he insisted upon stopping under a
broad, shady tree beside the road, and resting while he listened to
the remainder of the story.

Meanwhile he opened the glass case and took out a couple of paper
napkins and two rolls which were as white as snow when he split them
with a very sharp knife. He buttered both sides of these rolls
lavishly.

Then he opened the steaming frankfurter pot and oh! how the luscious
steam gushed out! Dot grabbed Tess’ hand hard. She thought she was
going to faint, for a moment—it smelled so good!

He selected two fat frankfurters and split them evenly. He placed them
on the buttered rolls. He put on mustard with a lavish hand. And then
he closed the rolls and wrapped the napkins about them.

Suddenly he saw Tom Jonah standing, too, watching him with wistful
intentness, his pink tongue hanging out of his mouth. If ever a dog’s
countenance expressed hunger, it was shown now in Tom Jonah’s face.
But he was too much of a gentleman, just as his collar said, to bark.

So the frankfurter man, without saying a word, opened the pot again
and took out a third sausage. This he did not split or put mustard on.

“Would you little girls like to eat a lunch now and pay me for it the
next time you see me?” he asked, smiling at Tess and Dot.

“Oh!” gasped Dot, clasping her hands and almost letting the Alice-doll
fall.

“You—you are _so_ kind!” said Tess, her voice fairly trembling.

He passed the two wrapped sandwiches over with a polite bow. “You are
very welcome,” he said. “And I am going to give your dog one for
himself because he grabbed that Gypsy. He’s a brave dog and deserves
one.”

“Oh! if you would be so good!” cried Tess.

Tom Jonah made one mouthful of the frankfurter. You see, _he_ had not
cared at all for the strawberries!

“Now,” said the frankfurter man, as the girls walked on beside him
again, munching their sandwiches, “that road yonder to the left leads
right down to the beach and to those tents. You can see the flags
flying above them now—see?”

“Oh, yes, sir!” returned Tess and Dot, in delight.

“Then you can easy find your way. Good-day, young ladies. I know your
sisters will be anxious to see you.”

“Thank you, sir,” Tess said, not forgetting her manners. “And we shall
not forget that we owe you for the sausages.”

“That’s right. Always pay your debts,” said the man, laughing, and
trundled his cart on through the dust, while the Kenway sisters
trudged down the shadier road toward the beach.

In fifteen minutes they were seen coming. The entire encampment had
turned out to search for the lost children. The boys from Milton had
gone in all directions to look for Tess and Dot.

It was only to Ruth and Agnes that the small girls related the details
of their surprising adventure. And Agnes did not understand entirely,
and was much troubled over the identity of the girl who had befriended
her sisters in so strange a fashion.

Ruth had no difficulty in guessing who she was. It was the girl with
the Gypsies who had masqueraded as the queen. The oldest Corner House
girl was sure that it was she. And Ruth understood that she must be
striving to get away from the Gypsies.

“I hope she won’t go so far from here that I shall never see her
again,” thought Ruth. “For she was interested in Rosa Wildwood, I am
sure; and it might be that she could tell me something about Rosa’s
missing sister.”

While Agnes put forth many “guesses” and “supposin’s” about the
strange girl, Dot had quite another problem in her enquiring mind. And
finally, as they were getting ready for bed that night, she threw out
a leading question which attracted the immediate attention of her
three sisters:

“Say, Ruthie,” she asked, “how do frankfurters grow?”

“What?” gasped Agnes, and clapped a hand over her own mouth to keep
from laughing.

“How do they _grow_, dear?” returned Ruth, rather taken aback herself.

“Goodness gracious, child!” exclaimed Tess. “They don’t grow on bushes
like pea-pods.”

“Oh, no, of course not!” ejaculated Dot, who did not like to be
considered ignorant. “A frankfurter flies, doesn’t it?”

“Mercy!” murmured Ruth. “Hear her!”

“Oh! I mean it crawls—it _creeps_. Of course,” Dot hurried to add.

Agnes exploded here. She could not keep in any longer.

“Well, I think you’re real mean!” complained Dot. “You won’t tell me.
I guess it’s a fish, then. Does it _swim_?”

“Goodness!” cried Tess.

“Then they come in bunches like bananas!” declared the frantic Dot.

_This_ was the worst yet. Agnes rolled on the matting of the bedroom
and almost choked. Ruth herself was laughing heartily at her small
sister as she gathered her into her arms and told her just how the
sausage-meat was stuffed into the frankfurters’ skins.

“Well!” murmured Dot, at last, and rather sleepily. “I don’t care. I
believe they are the very _nicest_ things there are to eat—so there!
Those the frankfurter man gave us were perfectly lovely.”

That was what suggested the Frankfurter Party, and the Frankfurter
Party was one of the very happiest thoughts that Ruth Kenway ever
evolved. We shall have to hear about it, in another chapter.




CHAPTER XXI

MRS. BOBSTER’S MYSTERIOUS FRIEND


Rosa Wildwood quickly showed improvement after her arrival at Pleasant
Cove. Under the ministrations of the little old woman who lived in a
shoe the Southern girl could not help feeling a measure of
contentment, if nothing else.

Her hostess was such a cheerful body! And, as Agnes had promised, Rosa
was supplied with good, hearty food—and plenty of it.

There was a glass of warm milk, fresh from the cow, on the stand
beside the head of her little chintz-hung bed every morning when Rosa
awoke. For Mrs. Bobster was up and about by daybreak.

When Rosa came down to the sunlit kitchen, breakfast was ready and the
little old woman who lived in a shoe declared she had all her
“outside” chores done, saving her regular work in her garden.

Rosa sometimes helped about the housework. The doctor had told her
that certain forms of housework would be good for her. But she had to
be very exact and careful in doing the work about the shoe-house, for
Mrs. Bobster was a New England housekeeper of the old school and was
as methodical as Grandfather’s Clock.

The girls from Milton did not neglect Rosa Wildwood. At least, the
Corner House girls and their friends did not. Pearl Harrod and the
girls at Spoondrift Bungalow came with a wagonette and took her
driving. The repairs had been made upon the bungalow and Pearl’s party
was there again—all but the Corner House girls.

Ruth had decided to stick to the tent for the remainder of their stay
at Pleasant Cove. And Willowbend Camp was becoming the liveliest spot
along the entire beach-front.

Ruth and her sisters came after Rosa and took her out in their boat.
The boys who were living at Willowbend, too, took an interest in the
frail Southern girl. For Rosa Wildwood, with the color stealing back
into her cheeks and lips, and her eyes bright again, was a very
attractive girl indeed!

Dot Kenway’s birthday came at this time, and that was the date set for
the Frankfurter Party. Dot’s guesses about the origin and nature of
the hearty and inviting, if not delicate, frankfurter, had delighted
the campers who heard the story; and Dot’s sisters and Neale spent
some time and a good deal of ingenuity in preparing for the festive
occasion.

Rosa came over to the tent colony and helped the girls prepare for the
party. Moreover, she had a secret to impart to Ruth.

“Don’t let the other girls hear, Ruth Kenway,” she said, with much
mystery. “But Mrs. Bobster is the oddest thing!”

“Well! I guess she is,” laughed Ruth. “But she’s _good_.”

“Good as gold,” agreed Rosa. “But she has some funny ways. Of course I
go to bed early. The doctor told me I should.”

“Well?”

“You’d think she’d go to bed early, too, when she’s up so soon in the
morning?”

“Well——I suppose that’s a matter of taste,” Ruth observed.

“Anyway, you know how lonesome it is over there?”

“I guess there are not many people about—after dark.”

“That’s just it!” cried Rosa. “Mrs. Bobster scurries around and does
all her out of doors chores before dark. And she locks and bolts all
the doors. She is really afraid after dark.”

Ruth nodded. She remembered how once the little old woman who lived in
a shoe had spoken to her about being afraid.

“Well, she locks and bolts the doors,” said Rosa, “and then we have
supper and I go to bed. Sometimes, like a good child, I go right to
sleep. Sometimes, like a bad child, I _don’t_.”

“Well—what then?”

“Then I hear Mrs. Bobster talking. She has company. I never hear the
company come in, or go out; but she has it every night.”

“And never says anything about it?”

“Not a word,” said Rosa. “I hinted once or twice that she must have
company every night, and all she said was that she didn’t like sitting
alone.”

“Is it a man or a woman?” asked Ruth.

“I don’t know,” laughed Rosa. “That’s one of the funny things about
it. Although I hear Mrs. Bobster sometimes chattering like a magpie, I
never hear an answer.”

“What?” gasped Ruth, in amazement.

“That’s right,” said Rosa, nodding confidently. “Whoever it is talks
so low that I haven’t heard his, or her, voice yet!”

“A dumb person?” suggested Ruth.

“Maybe. At any rate, I couldn’t tell you for the life of me whether it
is a man or a woman that comes to see the little old woman who lives
in a shoe. Isn’t it odd, Ruth?”

“I should say it was,” admitted Ruth.

“But she treats me well,” sighed Rosa. “I wouldn’t do her any harm for
the world. But I _am_ awfully curious!”

It was this day, too—the day of Dot’s party—that the wooden-legged
clam-digger came along through the Willowbend tent colony again. He
always came to the tent of the Corner House girls when he appeared;
Ruth was a regular customer, for she and her sisters were fond of
shellfish.

“I’ll have fifty to-day, Mr. Kuk,” she said to the saltish individual
when he hailed her from outside the tent. Ruth had learned that his
name was Habakuk Somes; everybody along the beach called him “Kuk,”
and Ruth, to be polite, tagged him with “Mister” in addition.

Tom Jonah appeared and showed his disapproval of the clam man by a
throaty growl. “That thar dawg don’t like me none too well,” said the
clam man. “What d’yeou call him?”

“Tom Jonah.”

“Thet’s enough to sink him,” said the man with a grin. “How’d ye come
ter call him that?”

“It’s his name,” said Ruth. “It was engraved on his collar when he
came to our house in Milton.”

“Oh! then he ain’t allus been your dawg, shipmet?” demanded the man.

“No. He came to us. We don’t know where from. But he is a gentleman,
and he is going to stay with us as long as he will.”

The clam man blinked, and said nothing more. But he cast more than one
glance at Tom Jonah before he went away.

The preparations made for the birthday party included the purchase of
a good many pounds of first quality frankfurters. And when they were
delivered to the Corner House girls’ tent, the fun began.

Tess and Dot were sent away for the morning to play with some of the
children at Enterprise Camp. Then Ruth and Agnes and Rosa and Neale
set to work to make frankfurters into the very funniest looking things
that you could imagine!

With bits of tinsel and colored paper and pins and other small wares,
the young folks set to work. They made frankfurters look like
caricatures of all kinds of beasts and birds, and insects as well. One
was the body of a huge, gaily-winged butterfly. Another was striped
and horned like a worm of ferocious aspect.

They were made into fishes, with tails and fins. Neale made a nest
with several “young” frankfurters poking their heads out for food,
while the mother frankfurter was just poised upon the edge of the
nest, her wings spread to balance her.

There were short-legged frankfurters, with long, flapping ears, like
dachshunds, and long, stiff-legged frankfurters, with abbreviated
tails, and appearing to gambol like lambs. There were several linked
together and apparently creeping about like a species of jointed,
horrid caterpillar.

Then they actually _were_ bunched like bananas! while some grew,
husked, like sweetcorn, and some had the green, fluffy tops of carrots
cunningly fastened to them and were tied together as carrots are
bunched in the market.

Neale’s ingenuity, however, rose to its height when he stretched a
slanting wire across the tent, higher than the partition, and made
several “aeroplanes” with bodies of the succulent sausage, which he
could start at one end of the wire to “fly” to the other end.

The young folks came to Willowbend Camp about five o’clock to enjoy
the festivities. The older Corner House girls, with the help of some
of their friends, served the crowd a hearty supper, the main course of
which was hot frankfurters, prepared by the “frankfurter man” whose
acquaintance Tess and Dot had made.

When the fun was over the guests took the fancy-dressed sausages home
as souvenirs.

Neale and Agnes and Ruth went home with Rosa, for it was a long walk,
and part of the way it was lonely. One of the ladies who had
chaperoned the party remained with Tess and Dot while their sisters
were absent.

The young folk had a pleasant walk, for there was a moon. Coming
finally in sight of the home of the little old woman who lived in a
shoe, Ruth said to Rosa, who walked with her:

“It is a lonely spot, isn’t it?”

“But I never feel afraid. Only I’m curious about Mrs. Bobster’s
friend——There! See it?” she cried, suddenly, but under her breath.

“See what?” Ruth asked.

“The shadow on the curtain,” said Rosa.

At the same moment Agnes said: “Hello! Mrs. Bobster has company.”

There was a lamp lit in the tiny front room of the cottage. Plainly
silhouetted upon the white shade was a man sitting in a chair.

“What! With his hat on?” exclaimed Ruth. “Who can it be?”

“He isn’t very polite, whoever he is,” said Neale.

“Let’s see about it,” suggested Agnes. “Do you know anything about
him, Rosa?”

“I only know she has had a visitor sometimes—after I’m in bed,” said
the Southern girl.

“Come on! let’s go in the side door,” said Agnes, in a low voice.

But when they had tiptoed to the door they found it locked. Rosa
laughed. “I tell you she never leaves a door or window unfastened
after dark,” she said.

They heard the little old woman who lived in a shoe coming to the door
to let them in. But Rosa had to assure her who it was before Mrs.
Bobster unlocked the door.

“But you had company?” said Agnes, rather pertly.

“Eh?” returned Mrs. Bobster, setting the broom behind the hall door.
“Oh, yes! I don’t never kalkerlate ter be alone many evenings.”

“Is he here now?” demanded Neale, laughing.

“Who? _Him?_ No,” said the widow, calmly. “He’s bashful. He went out
jest as you young folks come in. Sit right down, children, an’ I’ll
find a pitcher of milk an’ some cookies.”

The Corner House girls and Rosa—to say nothing of Neale O’Neil—were
amazed. They looked at each other wonderingly as the widow bustled out
to the pantry.

“I’d give a penny,” murmured Rosa Wildwood, “to know who her
mysterious friend is.”




CHAPTER XXII

THE YARN OF THE “SPANKING SAL”


The wooden-legged clam digger, Habakuk Somes, seemed suddenly to have
acquired a great interest in Tom Jonah.

He appeared almost every day at the tent of the Corner House girls and
did his best to become friendly with the dog. Tom Jonah grew used to
his presence, but he would allow no familiarities from the dilapidated
waterside character.

The girls thought “Kuk” Somes only queer; the boys “joshed” him a good
deal. Nobody minded having him around, considering merely that he was
a peculiar fellow, and harmless.

His tales of sea-going and sea-roving were wonderful indeed. How much
of them was truth and how much pure invention, the older Corner House
girls and Neale O’Neil did not know. However, they forgave his
“historical inaccuracies” because of the entertainment they derived
from his yarns.

Tess and Dot listened to the old fellow with perfect confidence in his
achievements. Had he not known—in a moment—what it was that shot
water up through the holes in the clam flat? The smaller girls
listened to old Kuk Somes with unshaken confidence.

“And how did the pirates get your leg, Mr. Kuk?” asked Tess. “Your
really truly leg, I mean.”

She and Dot were sitting on the edge of the tent-platform, under the
awning, with their bare feet in the sand, with Tom Jonah lying
comfortably between them. The dog had a brooding eye upon the clam
digger, who sat on a broken lobster trap a few feet away.

“Huh! them pi-_rats_?” queried the clam digger. “Well—er—now, did I
say it was pi-_rats_ as got my leg, shipmet?”

“Yes, you did, sir.” Dot hastened to bolster up her sister’s statement
of fact. “And you said it was on the Spanish Main.”

“Well!” declared the old man, “so it was, an’ so they did. Pi-_rats_
it was, shipmet. An’ I’ll tell yer the how of it.

“I was carpenter’s mate on the _Spankin’ Sal_, what sailed from
Bosting to Rio, touchin’ at some West Injy ports on the
way—pertic’larly Porto Rico, which is a big merlasses port. We had a
good part of our upper holt stowed with warmin’ pans for the merlasses
planters——”

“Oh, Mr. Kuk!” ejaculated Tess in rather a pained voice. “Isn’t that a
mistake? _Warming pans?_”

“Not by a joblot it ain’t no mistake!” returned the old man. “Warming
pans I sez, an’ warming pans I sticks to.”

“But my geogoraphy,” Tess ventured, timidly, and mispronouncing the
word as usual, “says that the West Indies are tropical. Porto Rico is
near the Equator.”

“Now, ain’t that wonderful—jest wonderful?” declared the clam digger,
smiting his knee with his palm. “Shows what it is to be book l’arned,
shipmet.

“’Course, _I_ knowed them was tropical places, but I didn’t know ’twas
all writ down in books—joggerfries, do they call ’em?”

“Yes, sir,” said Tess, seriously. “And it is so hot down there they
couldn’t possibly need warming pans.”

“Now, ye’d think that, wouldn’t ye, shipmet? And I’d think it. But the
skipper of the _Spankin’ Sal_, he knowed dif’rent.

“A master brainy man was Captain Roebuck. That was his name—Roebuck,”
declared the clam digger, solemnly. “Hev you ever seen a warming pan,
shipmet—an old-fashioned warmin’ pan?”

“Oh, yes!” cried Tess and Dot together. “There’s one hangs over the
mantelpiece in the sitting-room of the old Corner House,” added Tess.
“That’s where we live when we’re at home in Milton.

“And it is a round brass pan, with a cover that has holes in it, and a
long handle. Mrs. MacCall says folks used to put live coals in it and
iron the beds before folks went to bed, in the cold weather. But we
got furnace heat now, and don’t need the warming pan.”

“Surely, surely, shipmet,” agreed the clam digger. “Them’s the things.
And Cap’n Roebuck of the _Spankin’ Sal_, plagued near crammed the
upper holt with them.

“It looks right foolish, shipmet; but that skipper got a chancet ter
buy up a whole lot o’ them brass warmin’ pans cheap. If he’d seen ’em
cheap enough, he’d bought up a hull cargo of secon’ hand hymn books,
and he’d took ’em out to the heathen in the South Seas and made a
profit on ’em—he would that!” pursued Kuk, confidently.

“He must have been a wonderful man, sir,” said Tess, while Dot sat
round-eyed and listened.

“Wonderful! wonderful!” agreed the clam digger. “But about them
warmin’ pans. When we got ter Porto Rico we broke out the first of
them things. Looked right foolish. All them dons in Panama hats and
white pants, an’ barefooted comin’ aboard to look over samples of
tradin’ stock, an’ all they can see is warmin’ pans.

“‘What’s them things for?’ axed the first planter, in the Spanish
lingo.

“‘Them’s skimmers,’ says Cap’n Roebuck, knowin’ it warn’t no manner o’
use to try to explain the exact truth to a man what ain’t never seed
snow, or knowed there was a zero mark on the almanack.

“He grabbed up one o’ them warmin’ pans and made a swing with it like
you’d use a crab-net. ‘See! See!’ says the dons. ‘Skim-a da
merlasses.’ That’s Spanish for ‘Yes, yes! skim the merlasses,’”
explained Kuk, seriously.

“‘But what’s the cover for?’ axed the don. ‘Ye don’t hafter have no
cover,’ says Cap’n Roebuck, and he yanks the cover off the warmin’ pan
an’ throws it away.

“And there them dons had the finest merlasses dipper that ever went
inter the islan’s. Cap’n Roebuck seen their eyes snap an’ put a good,
stiff price on the things, and inside of a week there warn’t a warmin’
pan left on the _Spankin’ Sal_.

“Then,” pursued the clam digger, “we stowed away in our upper holt
goods what would bring a fancy price at Rio, and laid our course for
the Amazon.

“But we was all hands mighty worritted,” admitted Kuk, lowering his
voice mysteriously. “Ye see, ye never could tell in them old days, an’
in the West Injies, who it was safe to trust, an’ who it was safe ter
_dis_-trust.

“Yer see, so many of them snaky Spanish planters was hand an’ glove
with the pi-_rats_. And ev’rybody on the island knowed the _Spankin’
Sal_ was takin’ away a great treasure that had been exchanged for them
warmin’ pans. We was a fair mark, as ye might say, for them
pi-_rats_.”

“Oh!” gasped Dot, hugging her Alice-doll the tighter.

“How much treasure was there, Mr. Kuk?” asked the ever-practical Tess.

“A chist full,” announced the clam digger without a moment’s
hesitation. “A reg’lar treasure-chist full. All them planters hadn’t
had ready cash money to pay for the warmin’ pans, and they’d give in
exchange di’monds and other jools—and the exchange rates for American
money was high anyway. So the _Spankin’ Sal_ was a mighty good ketch
if the pi-_rats_ ketched her.

“So, when we sailed from Porto Rico we kep’ a weather eye open for
black-painted schooners with rakin’ masts an’ skulls and shinbones on
their flags. When we seed them signs we’d know they was pi-_rats_,”
declared Kuk, gravely.

The small Corner House girls sighed in unison—and in delight! “The
plot thickens!” whispered Agnes to Ruth behind the flap of the tent
where they were listening, likewise, though unbeknown to Kuk and the
children.

“Go on, please, Mr. Kuk,” breathed Tess.

“Oh, do!” said Dot.

“Well, shipmets,” said the old clam digger, “bein’ peaceful
merchantmen, as ye might say, we hadn’t shipped aboard the _Spankin’
Sal_ to fight no pi-_rats_,” declared Kuk, with energy. “We wasn’t no
sogers, and we told the skipper so.

“‘We’ll fight,’ says I. Bein’ an officer—carpenter’s mate, as I told
ye—I was spokesman for the crew. ‘But we wants ter fight with weepons
as we air fermiliar with. Let you and the ossifers fire the cannon,
skipper,’ says I, ‘and give us fellers that was bred along shore an’
on the farms some o’ them scythes out’n the lower holt.

“‘Cutlasses an’ muskets,’ says I, ‘is all right for them as has been
brought up with ’em,’ says I, ‘but, skipper, me an’ my shipmets has
been better used ter cuttin’ swamp-grass an’ mowin’ oats. Give us the
weepons we air fermiliar with.’

“And he done it,” declared Kuk, wagging his sinful old head. “We broke
out some cases of scythes and fixed ’em onto their handles after
grindin’ of ’em sharp as razers on the grin’stone in the waist of the
_Spankin’ Sal_.

“Pretty soon we seen one o’ them black-hulled schooners comin’. She
couldn’t be mistook for anythin’ but a pi-_rat_, although she didn’t
fly no black flag yet.

“‘Let ’em come to close quarters, skipper,’ says I. ‘Let ’em board us.
Then me an’ my shipmets can git ’em on the short laig. We’ll mow ’em
down like weeds along a roadside ditch.’

“He done it, an’ we did,” pursued Kuk, rather heated now with the
interest of his own narrative. “When they run their schooner alongside
of us and the two ships clinched, and they broke out the black flag at
their peak, me an’ my shipmets stood there ready to repel boarders.

“Them pi-_rats_,” proceeded Kuk, “fought like a passel of cats—tooth
an’ nail! They come over aour bulwarks jest like peas pourin’ out o’ a
sack. ‘Steady, lads!’ I sings out. ‘Take a long, sweepin’ stroke, an’
each o’ ye cut a good swath!’

“An’ we done so,” the clam digger said, nodding. “Our scythes was
longer than the cutlasses of them pi-_rats_; and before they could git
at us, we’d reach ’em with a side-swipe of the scythes, and mow ’em
down like ripe hay.”

“Oh, dear, me!” gasped Dot.

“How awful!” murmured Tess.

“’Twas sartain sure a bloody field of battle,” declared the clam
digger, nodding again. “If it hadn’t been for my leg I wouldn’t never
have fought no pi-_rats_ again. A man has his feelin’s, ye see. Our
scuppers run blood. The enemy was piled along the deck under our
bulwarks in a reg’lar windrow.”

“And did you kill them _all_—every one?” demanded Tess, in amazement.

“No. We jest cut ’em down for the most part,” explained Kuk. “Ye see,
we cut a low swath with our scythes; mostly we mowed off their feet
and mebbe their legs purty near to their knees. After that there
battle there was a most awful lot o’ wooden legged pi-_rats_ on the
Spanish Main.

“An’ _that_,” declared the clam digger, rising and getting ready to
move on, “was the main reason why I left the sea; leastwise I never
wanted to go sailin’ much in them parts again.

“In the scrimmage I got a shot in this leg as busted my knee-cap. I
kep’ hoppin’ ’round on that busted leg as long as there was any
pi-_rats_ to mow down; and I did the knee a lot of harm the doctors in
the horspital said.

“So I had ter have the leg ampertated. That made folks down that-a-way
ax me was I a pi-_rat_, too. I’m a sensitive man,” said Kuk, wagging
his head, “an’ it hurt my feelin’s to be classed in with all them
wooden-legged fellers as we mowed down in the _Spankin’ Sal_. So I
come hum an’ left the sea for good and all,” concluded Habakuk Somes,
and at once pegged off with his clam basket on his arm.

“What an awful, _awful_ story!” cried Dot.

“Too awful to believe,” answered Tess, wisely.




CHAPTER XXIII

THE SHADOW


The four Corner House girls planned to start for town one morning
early, and they were going by road instead of by boat.

Agnes ran over to the boys’ tents to ask Neale O’Neil to see that
their fresh fish was put upon the ice in the icebox when the fishman
came; and she found Neale doing duty on the housekeeping staff that
morning, being busily engaged in shaking up the pillows and beating
mattresses in the sun. The latter exertion was particularly for the
dislodgment of the ubiquitous sandflea!

“Hello, Ag! What’s the good word?” cried Neale.

Agnes told him what they were going to do and asked the favor.

“I’ll see that you get the fish all right,” Neale agreed. “But what
about the iceman? He’ll never come near your tent with Tom Jonah
there.”

“Tom Jonah is going with us,” Agnes said, promptly. “Did you suppose
we’d leave him all day alone, poor fellow?”

When they started Tom Jonah showed his delight at being included in
the girls’ outing by the most extravagant gyrations. As they went up
the shaded lane toward the auto-stage road, he chased half a dozen
imaginary rabbits into the woods in as many minutes.

It was right at the head of the lane that they met the man. He was not
a bad looking man at all, and he was driving a nice horse to a
rubber-tired runabout.

He drew in the horse, that seemed to have already traveled some miles
that morning, and looked hard at Tom Jonah.

“Well,” he said, cheerfully, “there’s the old tramp himself. How long
have you girls had him?”

The four Corner House girls stood stock-still, and even Ruth was
smitten dumb for the moment.

“Tom Jonah, you rascal!” said the man, not unkindly. “Don’t you know
your old master?”

At first the dog had not seen him; but the moment he heard the man’s
voice, he halted and his whole body stiffened. The plume of his tail
began to wave; his jaws stretched wide in a doggish smile. Then, as
the man playfully snapped the whip at him, Tom Jonah barked loudly.

“Where did you get him!” the man repeated, looking at the Corner House
girls again.

Tess and Dot were clinging to each other’s hands. Agnes stared at the
man belligerently. Ruth said—and her voice was not quite steady:

“Do you think you know Tom Jonah, sir?”

“What do you think yourself, Miss?” responded the man, rather gruffly.
“I guess there’s no mistake about whether he knows me and I know him.”

“No, sir,” said Ruth, bravely. “But lots of people may know him.”

“Do you mean to put in a claim for the dog?” interrupted the man,
quickly.

“Tom Jonah came to our house in Milton,” began Ruth, when again the
man interrupted with:

“Of course. He was on his way home to me. I sold him to a man who
lives forty miles beyond Milton.”

“Then you do _not_ own him?” Ruth said, with a feeling of relief.

The man looked at her steadily for a minute. Ruth had recovered her
self-possession. Tess and Dot were now on either side of Tom Jonah,
with their arms about the dog’s neck. Agnes was very angry, but
remained silent.

“I raised that dog from a pup, Miss. I owned his mother. I raised him.
I put his name on his collar. He has it there yet, hasn’t he?”

“Yes, sir,” admitted Ruth.

“He’s always been a good dog. He’s a gentleman if ever a dog was! He
had the run of the house. My wife and the girls made a great pet of
him. But by and by they said he was too big and clumsy for the house.
They have a couple of little _fice_—lap-poodles, or the like. Tom
Jonah was put out, and he got jealous. Yes, sir!” and the man laughed.
“Just as jealous as a human.”

“Oh!” gasped Agnes. She _disliked_ that man!

“My name’s Reynolds,” said the man. “Everybody knows me about Shawmit.
I run a lumber-yard there.

“Well! Tom Jonah got to running away to the neighbors. Stayed a while
with one, then with another. Always liked kids, Tom Jonah did, and
he’d stay longest where there were kids in the family.

“But it got to be a nuisance. I didn’t know whether the dog belonged
to me or somebody else. So I sold him to a relative of my wife’s who
came on visiting us, and took a fancy to Tom Jonah, and who lives—as
I said—forty miles beyond Milton. So the old fellow was on his way
back home when you took him in, eh?”

“He came to us at Milton,” Ruth replied. “He wanted to stay. I brought
him down here to take care of my little sisters. We’re living in a
tent down on the shore yonder——”

“And we’re going to keep him!” interrupted Agnes, angrily.

“Hush! Be still, Aggie!” begged Ruth, in a low tone.

“You don’t claim you bought him, I suppose?” said the man who called
himself Reynolds.

“But we _will_!” cried Ruth, instantly. “We will gladly pay for him.”

“Oh, he’s not for sale again,” laughed the man. “I sold him once and
he wouldn’t stay sold, you see.”

“Then he doesn’t belong to you now, any more than he does to us,
really,” Ruth hastened to say.

“Well——that’s so, I suppose,” admitted the man.

“We won’t give Tom Jonah up to anybody,” said Agnes again.

Dot was crying and Tess could scarcely keep from following her lead.
Tom Jonah stood solemnly, his eyes very bright, his tail waving
slowly. He looked from the girls to the man in the runabout, and back
again. He knew they were discussing him; but he did not know just what
it was all about.

“If we have to,” said Ruth, with much more confidence in her voice
than she felt in her heart, “we will give Tom Jonah up to the person
who really owns him. We do not know you, sir. We do not know if what
you say is true. You must prove it.”

“Well! I like that!” said the man in a tone that showed he did not
like it at all. “You are a pretty pert young lady, you are. I guess
I’ll take my own dog home. I heard he was over here to the beach and I
drove over particularly to get him.”

“Take him, then!” exclaimed Ruth, desperately. “If Tom Jonah will go
with you, all right. You call him.”

“Come here, boy!” commanded the man.

Tom Jonah did not move. Ruth took a hand of each of the smaller girls
and led them away from the big dog.

“Come, children,” she said. “We’ll go on. If Tom Jonah really loves
us, he’ll come, too.”

The dog whined. He looked from the red-faced, angry man to the four
girls who loved him so well.

“Come here, Tom Jonah!” commanded the man again. He had turned his
horse and was evidently headed for home. “Come, sir!”

The Corner House girls were moving sadly away. Agnes glanced back and
actually made a face at the man in the runabout. Fortunately he did
not see it.

“Come on, Tom Jonah!” said the man for the third time.

The dog was perplexed. He showed it plainly. He started after the man;
he started back for the girls. He whined and he barked. He was torn by
the conflicting emotions in his doggish soul.

“What’s the matter with him?” exclaimed the man, and snapped his
whiplash at Tom Jonah.

At that, Dot uttered a shriek of anguish. Tess burst into tears. Agnes
started back as though to protect the dog. Even Ruth could not forbear
to utter a cry.

“Here, Tom Jonah! here, sir!” Agnes shouted. “Come on, you dear old
fellow.”

The dog barked, circled the moving carriage once, and then raced down
the road toward the Corner House girls. The man shouted and snapped
his whip. Tom Jonah did not even look back at him when he caught up
with the girls.

[Illustration: The dog was perplexed. He started after the man;
started back for the girls. He whined and he barked.]

“Hurry up! let’s run with him, Ruthie,” begged Agnes.

But there was no need of that. The man did not turn his horse and
follow. He was quickly out of sight and Tom Jonah gave no sign of
wishing to follow his old master.

The incident troubled the Corner House girls vastly. Even Ruth was
devoted to the good old dog by this time. If he were taken away by
this Mr. Reynolds, it would be like losing one of the Corner House
family.

Ruth feared that Mr. Reynolds would find some legal way of getting
possession of Tom Jonah. She wished Mr. Howbridge were here to advise
them what to do. She even wished now that she had not brought Tom
Jonah to Pleasant Cove to act as their “chaperon.”

The smaller girls dried their eyes after a time. Agnes, “breathing
threatenings,” as Ruth said, promised Tess and Dot that the man never
should take Tom Jonah away. But Ruth wondered what they would do about
it if Mr. Reynolds came to Willowbend Camp with a police constable and
a warrant for the dog?

And, too, who had sent Mr. Reynolds word that Tom Jonah was at the
beach? He particularly said that he had been informed of the fact. It
seemed to Ruth that the informer must be their enemy.

Then, out of a dust cloud that had been drawing near the Corner House
girls for some few moments, appeared the forefront of a big touring
car. In it were Trix Severn and some of her friends from the Overlook
House.

“Oh! there’s Trix!” murmured Agnes to her older sister.

The hotel-keeper’s daughter would not look at the Corner House girls.
She, certainly, had proved herself their enemy. Ruth wondered if Trix
had had anything to do with bringing Mr. Reynolds to Pleasant Cove,
searching for his dog.

Ruth knew that the hotel-keeper’s daughter often rode over to Shawmit;
she was probably on her way there now with her party. And after the
way Trix had acted at the time the Spoondrift bungalow was burned, one
might expect anything mean of Trix. For once Ruth allowed her
suspicions to color her thoughts.

“She has awfully good times, just the same,” murmured Agnes.

“Who does?” demanded Ruth, tartly.

“Trix.”

“I declare!” exclaimed Ruth, with more vexation than she usually
displayed. “I’d be ashamed that I ever knew her after the way she’s
acted. And I believe, Agnes, that we can thank her for setting that
man after Tom Jonah.”

“Oh, Ruth! Do you believe so?”

“I do,” said the older Corner House girl, and she explained why she
thought so.

Mr. Severn bought many of his supplies in Shawmit, and Trix was
forever running over there in the car. It did not strain one’s
imagination very much to picture Trix hearing about Mr. Reynolds’ dog
and recognizing Tom Jonah from the description. Besides, the Severns
had been coming to Pleasant Cove for several seasons, and Trix might
easily have seen the dog when he lived with his first master.

“Oh, dear me!” sighed Agnes. “It does seem too bad that one’s very
_best_ friends sometimes turn out to be one’s enemies. Who’d have
thought Trix Severn would do such a thing?”

“Of course, we don’t _know_,” admitted Ruth, trying to be fair. “But
who else could have told Mr. Reynolds about Tom Jonah?”

Ruth went into the first store in the village that sold such things
and bought a new leash. This she snapped into the ring of his collar
and made the old dog walk beside them more decorously.

Tess and Dot could scarcely keep from hugging him all the time; they
wanted Ruth to agree to take the very next train back to Milton, for
they thought with the dog once at the old Corner House, nobody could
take him away from them.

“I didn’t like that man at all, anyway,” Tess declared. “He had red
whiskers.”

“Is—is that a sign that a man’s real mean if he has red whiskers,
Tess?” asked Dot, wonderingly.

“It’s a sign Tess doesn’t like him,” laughed Agnes. “But I don’t like
that Reynolds man myself. Do you, Ruthie?”

“We’re all agreed on that point I should hope,” said Ruth. “But we
won’t run away with Tom Jonah. If that man comes for him again, I’ll
find some way to circumvent him. The good old dog belongs to us, if he
does to anybody. And as long as he wants to live with us, he shall. So
now!”

The other Corner House girls finally forgot their worriment about Tom
Jonah. Ruth warned them not to talk about it to the girls they met.
They did their errands in the village and then went on to Spoondrift
bungalow where they spent a very enjoyable day.

Neale O’Neil and Joe Eldred came after supper to escort the Corner
House girls back to Willowbend Camp. Tess and Dot had taken a nap
during the afternoon, so were not a drag on the procession, going
home.

They went around by the home of the little old woman who lived in the
shoe. Ruth and Agnes had been talking with the boys about the mystery
of the strange girl who had shared in the adventures of Tess and Dot
on Wild Goose Island. They all agreed she must be a Gypsy; but Ruth
had kept to herself the knowledge of the girl’s identity as the Gypsy
“queen.”

“I saw several of the Gypsies about the beach to-day,” Joe Eldred
said. “That snaky, scarred-faced fellow was one of them.”

“He’s the ring-leader, I believe,” Ruth hastened to say.

“Can’t just see what they are after, hanging about here,” Neale
observed. “There isn’t much to steal. Everybody’s brought just the
oldest things they own down here to the beach.”

“And there are no hens to steal,” chuckled Agnes.

“I bet none of them will come near the tents while Tom Jonah is on
guard,” Neale added, snapping his fingers for the dog who was running
ahead in the moonlit path.

Suddenly Tom Jonah stopped and growled. They had arrived in sight of
the queer little cottage where Rosa Wildwood lived with Mrs. Bobster.
The young folk could even see the drawn shade of the sitting-room
window.

“There’s that man again!” exclaimed Agnes.

“What man?” Joe Eldred asked.

“Mrs. Bobster’s mysterious friend,” giggled Agnes. “See his shadow on
the curtain?”

“And he’s sitting there with his hat on,” murmured Neale.

But it was Ruth who saw the other—and more important—shadow. This
was the figure of a tall man slipping along the outer side of Mrs.
Bobster’s picket fence. It was _this_ shadow at which Tom Jonah was
growling.

The man came to the gate, opened it softly, and stole in. His furtive
movements gave the big dog his cue. He leaped forward, barking
vociferously, leaped the fence, and followed the running figure around
the corner of the house.

Mrs. Bobster shrieked—the young folk outside could hear her. But her
“company” did not move. He still sat there with his derby hat on.

The boys started after the dog. The girls stood, clinging to one
another’s hands, at the corner of the fence.

From around the house appeared another running figure; but this was a
girl. She flung herself headlong over the fence, and her skirt caught
on a picket. Ruth ran forward to release her.

“Oh, my dear!” she gasped. “Where did you come from?”

It was the girl she had first noticed in the train with the Gypsy
woman—the very girl who had been on Wild Goose Island with Tess and
Dot. It was she who had masqueraded as Zaliska, the Gypsy queen.




CHAPTER XXIV

BROUGHT TO BOOK


“Let me go! Let me go!” gasped the girl in Ruth’s arms. “He will get
me.”

“Who’ll get you?” demanded the wondering Agnes.

“Big Jim, the Gypsy. He’s after me,” said the strange girl.

“And Tom Jonah and the boys are after _him_,” declared Ruth. “Don’t
you fret; Big Jim won’t come back here.”

“Who _is_ she, Ruth?” asked Agnes.

“Never mind who I am,” said the girl, rather sharply. “Let me go.”

“I know why you were lurking about here,” Ruth said, calmly. “You
heard that Rosa Wildwood is stopping here.”

“Well?” demanded the other.

“Then you are June Wildwood. You’re her sister. I don’t know how you
came to be with those Gypsies, and masquerading as an old woman——”

“My goodness!” gasped Agnes. “Was _she_ that Gypsy queen?”

“Yes,” Ruth said, confidently. “Now, weren’t you?” to the strange
girl. “And aren’t you Rosa’s sister who ran away two years ago?”

“Oh, I am! I am!” groaned the girl.

“Well, Rosa’s just crazy to see you. And your father has been
searching for you everywhere,” said Ruth, quickly. “You must come in
and see Rosa. There’s Mrs. Bobster opening the front door.”

The shadow of the man with the derby hat on his head still was
motionless upon the shade; but the widow had opened the front door on
its chain, and now demanded:

“Who’s there? what do you want?”

“It’s only me, Mrs. Bobster,” cried Ruth.

Tess and Dot were already running toward the cottage door. “Oh, Mrs.
Bobster!” Tess cried, “here’s the girl that helped us on the
island—me and Dot.”

“And my Alice-doll,” concluded Dot, likewise excited. “And Ruthie says
she’s Rosa’s sister.”

“For the good land of liberty’s sake!” ejaculated Mrs. Bobster,
throwing wide the door. “Come in! Come in!”

The girl whom Ruth had seized hesitated for a moment. Ruth whispered
in her ear:

“Rosa is wearing her heart out for you, June Wildwood. And your father
isn’t drinking any more. He has a steady job. You come back to them
and you needn’t be afraid of those Gypsies.”

“They’ll try to get me back. Doc. Raynes’ wife was one of them. The
old doctor died a year ago, and since then I’ve been with that gang,”
said June Wildwood.

“Were the doctor and his wife the folks you ran away with?”

“Yes. I danced and sang and dressed up in character to help entertain
their audiences when he sold bitters and salve,” the girl explained.
“The old doctor treated me all right. But these thieving Gypsies are
different. Mrs. Doc. Raynes is Big Jim’s sister.”

“Don’t you be afraid of them any more. We’ll set the police after
them,” Ruth declared. “Where have you been since the day my sisters
were with you?”

“I’ve been washing dishes at a hotel here in Pleasant Cove. But I kept
under cover. I was afraid of them,” said the girl.

They reached the door then, and went into the cottage. Mrs. Bobster
ushered them right into the sitting-room and at once all the girls
halted in amazement. There was an armchair standing between the window
and the center table, where the lamp sat. Leaning against the chair
was the broom, and on the business end of that very useful household
implement was a hat that had probably once belonged to the husband of
the little old woman who lived in a shoe.

“My goodness sake!” ejaculated Agnes, the first to get her breath.
“Then it was not company you had at all, Mrs. Bobster?”

“No,” said the widow, in a business-like way, removing the hat from
the broom and standing the latter in the corner. “But I didn’t want
folks to know it. There’s some stragglers around here after dark, and
I wanted ’em to think there was a man in the house.”

At that moment Rosa Wildwood came running downstairs in wrapper and
slippers. “I heard her! I heard her!” she shrieked, and the next
moment the two sisters were hugging each other frantically.

Explanations were in order; and it took some time for the little old
lady who lived in a shoe to understand the reunion of her boarder and
the girl who had lived with the Gypsies.

The boys and Tom Jonah came back, having chased the lurking Big Jim
for quite a mile through the woods. “And Tom Jonah brought back a
piece of his coat-tail,” chuckled Neale O’Neil. “He can consider
himself lucky that the dog didn’t bite deeper!”

“I guess that dog doesn’t like Gypsies,” said June Wildwood, patting
Tom Jonah’s head.

The boys were just as much interested as their girl friends in the
reunion of Rosa and her sister. Meanwhile Mrs. Bobster bustled about
and found the usual pitcher of cool milk and a great platter of
cookies. The young folk feasted beyond reason while they all talked.

Ruth arranged with the little old woman who lived in a shoe to let
June stay with her sister, and she promised June, as well, that if she
would return to Milton with Rosa, employment would be found for her so
that she could be self-supporting, yet live at home with Rosa and Bob
Wildwood.

The Corner House girls offered to leave Tom Jonah to guard the
premises for that night. But Mrs. Bobster said:

“I reckon I won’t be scaret none with two great girls in the house
with me. Besides, when I am asleep, being lonesome don’t bother me
none—no, ma’am!”

“Well, we don’t know how long we’re going to have old Tom Jonah
ourselves,” sighed Agnes, as the party bound for the tent colony
started on again.

“How’s that!” demanded Neale, quickly.

They told him about the man named Reynolds, from Shawmit, and the
claim he had made to the big dog. Neale was equally troubled with the
Corner House girls over this, and he advised Ruth and Agnes to take
the dog wherever they went.

“Don’t give the fellow a chance to find Tom Jonah alone, or with the
little girls,” said Neale. “I don’t believe he can get the dog legally
without considerable trouble. And Tom Jonah has shown whom he likes
best.”

This uncertainty about Tom Jonah, however, did not keep the Corner
House girls from continuing their good times at Pleasant Cove. With
one of the ladies of the tent colony for chaperon the girls and their
boy friends had many a “junket”—up the river, down the bay, and even
outside upon the open sea.

It was on one of these latter occasions that Ruth and Agnes joined
Neale and his friends on the “double-ender,” _Hattie G._, and with her
crew spent a night and a day chasing the elusive swordfish.

That _was_ an adventure; and one not soon to be forgotten by the older
Corner House girls. Of course Tess and Dot were too small to go on
this trip and they were fast asleep in one of the neighboring tents
when Neale O’Neil came and scratched on the canvas of that in which
Ruth and Agnes slept.

“Oh!” gasped Agnes. “What’s that!”

“Is that you, Neale?” demanded Ruth, calmly.

“Of course. Get a bustle on,” advised the boy. “The motorboat will be
ready in ten minutes.”

“Mercy!” ejaculated Agnes, giggling. “You know we don’t wear bustles,
Neale. They are too old-fashioned for anything.”

She and Ruth quickly dressed. There wasn’t much “prinking and
preening” before the mirror on this morning, that was sure. In ten
minutes the two Corner House girls were running down the beach, with
their bags (packed over-night) and their rain-coats over their arms.
Tom Jonah raced after them.

Everywhere save on the beach itself the shadows lay deep. There was no
moon and the stars twinkled high overhead—spangles sewed on the
black-velvet robe of Night.

Out upon the quietly heaving waters sounded voices—then the pop of a
launch engine.

“Come on!” urged Neale’s voice. “They’re getting the boat ready,
girls.”

“But we’re not going out to the banks in the _Nimble Shanks_—surely!”
cried Agnes.

“No. But we’re going down the cove in her to catch the _Hattie G._
Skipper Joline sent up a rocket for us half an hour ago. The tide’s
going out. He won’t wait long, I assure you.”

“It would be lots more comfortable to go all the way in the
motorboat—wouldn’t it?” asked Ruth, stepping into the skiff after
Agnes and the dog.

“Skipper Joline would have a fit,” laughed Joe Eldred. “A motorboat
engine would scare every swordfish within a league of the Banks—so
_he_ says. He declares _that_ is what makes them so hard to catch the
last few seasons. These motorboats running about the sea are a greater
nuisance than the motor cars ashore—so he declares.”

“I suppose the swordfish shy at the motorboats just like the horses
shy at automobiles!” giggled Agnes, as Neale and Joe pushed off and
seized the oars.

“Yep,” grunted Neale O’Neil. “And the motorboats have frightened all
the horse-mackerel away. That’s a joke. I’ll tell the Skipper _that_.”

Several shadowy figures—being those of the other boys and Mr. and
Mrs. Stryver, who were members of the swordfishing party, too—were
spied about the deck and cockpit of the _Nimble Shanks_. The boys shot
the skiff in beside the motorboat and helped the girls aboard. Then
they moored the skiff to the motorboat’s buoy and soon the _Nimble
Shanks_ was away, down the cove.

It was past two o’clock—the darkest minutes of a summer’s morning.
Seaward, a light haze hung over the water—seemingly a veil of mist
let down from the sky to shut out the view of all distant objects from
the out-sailing mariners.

As the party neared the fishing fleet, voices carried flatly across
the water, and now and then a dog barked. Tom Jonah answered these
canines ashore with explosive growls. He stood forward, his paws
planted firmly on the deck, and snuffing the sea air. Tom Jonah was a
good sailor.

“Got your scare?” a voice came out of the darkness, quavering across
the cove. “Going to be thick outside.”

Neale grabbed the fish-horn and blew a mighty blast on it. Similar
horns answered from all about the fleet.

A towering mast, with its big sail bending to the breeze, shot past
them—the big cat-boat, _Susie_, bound for her lines of lobster-pots
just off the mouth of the cove. Her crew hailed the launch and her
party—four sturdy young fellows in jerseys and high sea-boots.

“Whew!” said Joe. “Smell that lobster bait! I’d hate to go for a
pleasure trip on the _Susie_.”

The _Hattie G._ was just ahead and Mr. Stryver shut off the engine.
The drab, dirty looking old craft tugged sharply at her taut mooring
cable. She had two short masts, and on these heavy canvas was being
spread by the crew, which consisted of five men and a boy.

One of the men was the skipper, another the mate, a third the cook;
but all hands had to turn to to make sail. There were several sweeps
(heavy oars) held in bights of rope along the rail. Both ends of the
_Hattie G._ were sharp; in other words she had two bows. Thus the
name, “double-ender”—a build of craft now almost extinct save in a
few New England ports out of which ply the swordfishermen.

Skipper Joline came to the rail. He was a hoarse, red-faced man with a
white beard, cut like a paintbrush, on his chin.

“Climb aboard, folks,” he said. “Steve will get breakfast shortly.
There’s a bit of fog and some swell outside. Better all lay in a good
foundation of scouse and sody biscuit. Ye’ll need it later.”

“That sounds rather suggestive, Ruth,” whispered Agnes. “Do you
suppose he expects us landlubbers to be really _sick_?”

“I hope not,” replied her sister. “But I don’t care! I’m going to eat
that breakfast if it kills me! I was never so hungry in all my life
before.”

They left the _Nimble Shanks_ moored at the double-ender’s
anchor-buoy, and the latter lurched away on the short leg of her tack
for the entrance to the cove. There was a fresh breeze and the water
began to sing under the sharp bows of the _Hattie G._

The cook got busy in the galley and the fragrance of coffee and fried
fish smothered all other smells about the craft—for it must be
confessed that the double-ender had an ancient and fishy smell of her
own that was not altogether pleasant to the nostrils of a fastidious
person.

These hearty boys and girls were out for fun, however, and they had
been long enough at Pleasant Cove to get used to most fishy odors.
Before breakfast was over the _Hattie G._ had run through the
“Breach,” as the cove entrance was called, and they were sailing
straight out to sea.

The mournful wail of a horn in the fog now and then announced the
location of some lobsterman. The _Hattie G._ answered these “scares”
with her own horn and swept on through the fog.

But now the mist began to lift. A golden glow rose, increased, and
spread all along the eastern horizon. Suddenly they shot out of the
fog and sailed right into the bright path of the rising sun.

This wonderful sight of sunrise at sea delighted Ruth and Agnes
intensely. It was just as though they had sailed suddenly into a new
world.

The fog masked the land astern. Ahead was nothing but the heaving,
greenish-gray waves, foam-streaked at their crowns to the distant
skyline, with only a few sails crossing the line of vision. Not a
speck of land marred the seascape.

Later, when the _Hattie G._ reached the Banks, there was something
beside the view to interest and excite the Corner House girls.

The big sails were lowered and only a riding sail spread to keep the
_Hattie G._ on an even keel. A “pulpit” was set up on each of her
short booms—both fore and aft.

At the top of a mast was rigged a barrel-like thing in which the
lookout stood with a glass, on the watch for the swordfish.

These can only be caught asleep on the surface of the sea. When one is
sighted either the sails are hoisted, or the sweeps are used, to bring
the vessel near enough for the skipper or his mate to make a cast of
the harpoon.

Once one of the huge fish was spied, everybody aboard the _Hattie G._
was on the _qui vive_. The boys climbed the ratlines to see. The girls
borrowed the cook’s old-fashioned spyglass to get a better view of the
creature.

The _Hattie G._ was brought softly near the fish. Skipper Joline had
warned his guests to keep quiet. Ruth kept her hand upon Tom Jonah’s
collar so that he should not disturb the proceedings.

The skipper stepped into the pulpit—a framework of iron against which
he leaned when he cast the harpoon. All was ready for the supreme
moment.

The coil of the line was laid behind him. The crew brought the _Hattie
G._ just to the spot Skipper Joline indicated with a wave of his hand.

Back swung the mighty arm of the skipper, the muscles swelling like
cables under the sleeve of his blue jersey.

“Now!” breathed the mate, as eager as any of the boys or girls among
the spectators.

Ping!

The skipper had let drive. The harpoon sank deeply into the fish. For
a brief instant they saw blood spurt out and dye the sea.

Then the huge fish leaped almost its length from the sea. The crew
drove the _Hattie G._ back. Good reason why the swordfishing craft are
built sharp at both ends!

How the fish thrashed and fought! Its sword beat the water to foam.
Had it found the double-ender, the latter’s bottom-planks would have
been no protection against the creature’s blows.

A swordfish has been known to thrust its weapon through the bottom of
a boat and break it off in its struggles to get free.

“Oh, Agnes!” gasped Ruth, when the fight was over and the huge fish
killed. “Who would ever believe, while buying a slice of swordfish,
that it was so dangerous to capture one of the creatures?”

The crew of the _Hattie G._ got four ere they set sail for Pleasant
Cove again, and the Corner House girls became quite used to the
methods of the fishermen and the tactics of the swordfish on being
struck.

They sailed back to Pleasant Cove with what was called the prize catch
of the season. When a fish is as big as a good-sized dining-table and
sells for twenty-five cents a pound, retail, it does not take many to
make a good catch.

Ruth and Agnes, and Neale and the other boys, were glad they went on
the trip. They arrived at the camp late in the evening, filled with
enthusiasm over the adventures of the day.

And Skipper Joline presented the Corner House girls with a four-foot
sword which, later, occupied a place of honor over the sitting-room
mantelpiece in the old Corner House at Milton.

Ruth took Tom Jonah up to see the Wildwood girls with her the very
next time she went to call.

The Corner House girl found Rosa and June shelling peas under the
arbor, while Mrs. Bobster was talking with Kuk Somes over a “mess” of
clams she had bought.

“You ain’t honest enough to count out a hunderd clams, Kuk,” declared
the plain-spoken old lady. “Ye got such a high-powered imagination
that ye can’t count straight.”

“Now, Mis’ Bobster, thet thar’s a hard statement ter make,” said Kuk,
shaking his head, but grinning. “Don’t make me out so ’fore these here
young ladies.”

“I reckon they know ye!” cried the widow. “If they’ve ever hearn ye
spin one o’ yer sea-farin’ yarns——”

“And we have,” interposed Ruth, smiling. “He’s told us about how he
sailed in the _Spanking Sal_ and lost his leg fighting pirates.”

“For the good land o’ liberty!” gasped Mrs. Bobster. “He never told ye
_that_?”

“Oh, yes. It was very interesting,” laughed Ruth.

“Why,” said the widow, angrily, “that fellow never sailed in a
deep-water craft in his life. The only time he ever went out in a
double-ender as fur as the swordfish banks, he was so sick they had
ter bring him ashore on a stretcher!”

“Now, Mis’ Bobster——” began the clam digger, faintly.

“Ain’t that _so_? Ye daren’t deny it,” she declared. “He ain’t no
sailor. He’s jest an old beach-comber. Don’t never go in _any_ boat
outside of the cove. Lost his leg fightin’ pirates, did he? Huh!”

“So he told us,” said the much amused Ruth.

“Why, th’ ridiculous old thing!” exclaimed Mrs. Bobster, laughing
herself now. “He lost that leg in Mr. Reynolds’ sawmill at
Shawmit—that’s how he did it. And he was tipsy at the time or he
wouldn’t never have got hurt.”

“Oh!” cried Ruth, staring at the sheepish clam digger.

“And he goes over there to Shawmit ev’ry month an’ collects ten
dollars from Reynolds, who’s good-natured and helps him out with a
pension. Ain’t that so, Kuk Somes!”

The wooden-legged clam digger nodded. “Whar’s the harm?” he murmured.
“Ye know these city folks likes ter hear my yarns. An’ it don’t hurt
’em none.”

“But that’s how Mr. Reynolds heard about our having Tom Jonah,”
declared Ruth, accusingly. “You told him.”

“Yep. That’s his old dawg,” said Kuk.

“Well, you’ve made us a lot of trouble,” said Ruth, sadly. “For I am
afraid that Mr. Reynolds will try to take Tom Jonah away. And,” she
added, in secret, “how wrong I was to accuse Trix Severn, without
stronger evidence.”




CHAPTER XXV

THE END OF THE OUTING


Tess and Dot Kenway had a very serious matter to decide. Ruth had
determined that, as they were all enjoying themselves at Pleasant Cove
so much, the Corner House flag should continue to wave for a time
longer over their tent in the Willowbend Camp.

But there was something at home in Milton, at the old Corner House
itself, that the younger girls thought they _must_ attend to.

“It’s really a _nawful_ state of affairs,” Tess declared, nodding her
sunny head, gravely, and with her lips pursed up. “They are growing
right up without knowing their own names. Why! I don’t see how their
own mother knows them apart.”

“Oh!” gasped Dot, to whom this was a new idea indeed. “I never thought
of that.”

“Well, it’s so,” said Tess. “I—I wish Ruth had sent for them and had
had them brought down here when Rosa and Tom Jonah came.”

“But they couldn’t leave their mother, Tess,” objected Dot. “They’re
too small.”

“I—don’t—know,” said Tess, doubtfully. “At any rate, it’s high time
they were named. You know, Mrs. MacCall says so herself.”

Dot picked up the letter that the kind housekeeper at the old Corner
House had written especially to the two smaller Kenway girls.

“She says they chase their tails all day long and they have had to put
them out in the woodshed to keep them from being under foot,” Dot
said, reading slowly, for Mrs. MacCall’s writing was not like print.

“They must be named,” repeated Tess, with conviction.

“But Ruth won’t let us go home to do it,” quoth Dot.

“And I don’t want to. Do _you_?” demanded Tess, hastily. “I don’t want
to leave the beach now, just when we’re having so much fun.”

Neither did Dot. But the state of the unchristened kittens—the
youngest family of Sandyface—troubled her exceedingly.

Tess, however, suddenly had one of her very brilliant ideas. “I tell
you what let’s do!” she cried.

“What?”

“Let’s write Mrs. MacCall and Uncle Rufus a letter, and ask them to
name Sandyface’s children their own selves.”

“But—but _we_ want to name them,” cried Dot.

“Goosey!” exclaimed Tess. “We’ll choose the names; but Mrs. MacCall
and Uncle Rufus can give them to the kittens. Don’t you see?”

“Oh, Tess! we might,” agreed Dot, delighted.

Tess ran to the tent for paper and pencil, and bespoke the favor of an
envelope addressed in ink to Mrs. MacCall.

“Of course, I’ll address one for you,” said Ruth, kindly. “But what’s
all the hurry about writing home?”

Tess explained the necessity that had arisen. Sandyface’s family of
kittens was growing up without being christened—and something might
happen to them.

“You know,” said Tess, gravely, “it would be dreadful if one of them
died and we didn’t know what to put on the headboard. It would be
dreadful!”

“And what names shall we send Mrs. MacCall?” Dot wanted to know, when
Tess had started the letter “Deare Missus Mcall” and was chewing the
pencil as an aid to further thought.

“Let’s call them by seashore names,” suggested Tess. “Then they’ll
remind us of the fun we had here at Pleasant Cove.”

“Oh-oo! Let’s,” agreed Dot.

“Well, now,” said Tess, promptly. “What will be the very first one?
I’ll write Mrs. MacCall what we want,” and she proceeded to indite the
following paragraph to begin the letter:

  “We are having so much fun down here at plesent cove that we cant
  find time to come home and name Sandface’s babbies. But we want
  you and unc rufs to do it for us and we are going to send you the
  names we chose. They are——”

Here Tess’s laboring pencil came to a full stop. “Now, you got the
first name, Dot?” she asked.

“I got two,” declared Dot, confidently.

“What are they!” queried Tess. “Now, we want them to be real
salt-water names. Just like fishes’ names—or boats’ names—or like
that.”

“I got two,” declared Dot, soberly. “Lots of men must be named those
names about here. I hear them hollerin’ to each other when they are
out in the boats.”

“Well, well!” cried Tess, impatiently. “What are the names?”

“One’s ‘Starboard’ and the other’s ‘Port,’” declared Dot, seriously.
“And they are real nice names, _I_ think.”

Tess was rather taken aback. She had a hazy opinion that “Starboard”
and “Port” were not Christian names; they _might_ be, however, and she
had heard them herself a good deal. Besides, she wanted to agree with
Dot if she could, and so she sighed and wrote as follows:

   “We got to names alreddy, Missus Mcall, and one’s Starborde and the
   other is Port. They are very pretty names, we think and we hope you
   an unc rufs and Sandface will like them, to. You give them to the
   kittens that they seem to fit the best, pleas.”

Neale, and Ruth, and Agnes came along some time afterward and found
the smaller Corner House girls reduced almost to a state of
distraction. They had been unable to decide upon two more names.
“Starboard” and “Port” had been inspired, it seemed. Now they were
“stuck.”

“It _does_ seem as though there should be some other seashore names
that would sound good for kittens,” sighed Tess. “I think ‘Starboard’
and ‘Port’ are real pretty—don’t you, Ruth?”

“Very fine,” agreed her older sister, while Agnes restrained her
giggles.

“Why not call one of the others ‘Hard-a-Lee’?” suggested Neale,
gravely.

“Is _that_ a seashore name?” asked Tess, doubtfully.

“Just as salt as a dried codfish,” declared Neale, confidently.

“I think it is real pretty,” Dot ventured.

“Then we’ll call the third one ‘Hard-a-Lee,’” declared Tess. “I’ll
tell Mrs. MacCall so,” and she laboriously went at the misspelled
letter again.

“But how about the fourth one?” asked Agnes, laughing. “He’s not going
to be a step-child, is he? Isn’t he to have a name?”

“Yes. We must have one more,” Tess said, wearily. “Won’t _you_ give us
one, Aggie?”

“Sure!” said Agnes, promptly. “Main-sheet.’”

“‘Starboard, Port, Hard-a-Lee and Main-sheet.’ Some names, those!”
declared Neale.

“I like them,” Tess said, reflectively. “They don’t sound like other
cats’ names—do they, Ruthie?”

“They most certainly do not,” admitted the oldest Corner House girl.

“And are they pretty, Ruthie?” asked Dot.

“They are better than ‘pretty,’” agreed Ruth, kindly. “If you children
are suited, I am sure everybody else—including the kittens
themselves—will be pleased!”

The labored letter was therefore finished and sent away. As Dot said,
“it lifted a great load from their minds.”

But there was another matter that served to trouble all four of the
Corner House girls for some days. That was what Mr. Reynolds, the
lumberman, was going to do about Tom Jonah.

The girls seldom left their tent now without taking the dog with them.
He was something of a nuisance in the boat when they went crabbing;
but Agnes would not hear of going out without him.

“I know that man will come back here some time and try to get him
away,” she declared. “But Tom Jonah will never go of his own free
will—no, indeed!”

“And he won’t sell him again, he said,” sighed Ruth. “I don’t just see
what we can do.”

However, this trouble did not keep the Corner House girls from having
many good times with their girl friends at the Spoondrift bungalow,
and their boy friends on the beach.

There were fishing trips, and picnics on Wild Goose Island. They
sometimes went outside the cove in bigger boats, and fished on the
“banks,” miles and miles off shore. There was fun in the evenings,
too, at the hotel dances, although the Corner House girls did not
attend any of those held at the Overlook House, for they were not
exactly friendly with Trix Severn.

One day Pearl Harrod’s Uncle Phil arranged to take a big party of the
older girls to Shawmit, which was some miles up the river. Ruth and
Agnes went along and that day they left Tom Jonah at Willowbend to
take care of the smaller girls.

Ruth determined to see Mr. Reynolds, so when they reached Shawmit, she
hunted up the lumberman’s office. She found him in a more amiable mood
than he had been on the morning he drove to Pleasant Cove to get Tom
Jonah.

“Well, Miss!” he said. “How do you feel about giving up that dog?”

“Just the same, sir,” said Ruth, honestly. “But I hope you will tell
me who the man is you sold Tom Jonah to, so that we can go to him and
buy the dog.”

“Do you girls really want old Tom Jonah as much as _that_?” asked Mr.
Reynolds.

“Yes, sir,” said the girl, simply.

“Willing to buy the old rascal? And he’s nothing but a tramp.”

“He’s a gentleman. You said so yourself on his collar,” said Ruth.

The man looked at her seriously and nodded. “I guess you think a whole
lot of him, eh?”

“A great deal, sir,” admitted Ruth.

“Well! I guess I’ll have to tell you,” said the man, smiling. “Old Tom
evidently thinks more of you girls than he does of me. Tell you what:
After I got home the other day I thought it over. I reckon Tom Jonah’s
chosen for himself. I paid my brother-in-law back the money he gave me
for him. So you won’t be bothered again about him.”

“Oh, sir——”

“You keep him. Rather, let Tom Jonah stay as long as he wants to. But
if he comes back to me I sha’n’t let him go again. No! I don’t want
money for him. I guess the old dog likes it where he is, and his days
of usefulness are pretty nearly over anyway. I’m convinced he’ll have
a good home with you Corner House girls.”

“Just as long as he lives!” declared Ruth, fervently.

So Mr. Reynolds did not prove to be a hardhearted man, after all.
Agnes and Tess and Dot were delighted. There was a regular celebration
over Tom Jonah that evening after Ruth got home and told the news.

It is doubtful if Tom Jonah understood when Dot informed him that he
was going to be their dog “for keeps.” But he barked very
intelligently and the two smaller girls were quite convinced that he
understood every word that was said to him.

“Of course, he can’t talk back,” Tess said. “Dogs don’t speak our
language. But if we could understand the _barking language_, I am sure
we would hear him say he was glad.”

And as our story of the Corner House girls’ visit to Pleasant Cove
began with Tom Jonah, we may safely end it with the assurance that the
good old dog will spend the rest of his life with Ruth and Agnes and
Tess and Dot, at the old Corner House in Milton.


THE END




CHARMING STORIES FOR GIRLS

(From eight to twelve years old)

THE CORNER HOUSE GIRLS SERIES

BY GRACE BROOKS HILL

Four girls from eight to fourteen years of age receive word that a
rich bachelor uncle has died, leaving them the old Corner House he
occupied. They move into it and then the fun begins. What they find
and do will provoke many a hearty laugh. Later, they enter school and
make many friends. One of these invites the girls to spend a few weeks
at a bungalow owned by her parents; and the adventures they meet with
make very interesting reading. Clean, wholesome stories of humor and
adventure, sure to appeal to all young girls.

  1 CORNER HOUSE GIRLS.
  2 CORNER HOUSE GIRLS AT SCHOOL.
  3 CORNER HOUSE GIRLS UNDER CANVAS.
  4 CORNER HOUSE GIRLS IN A PLAY.
  5 CORNER HOUSE GIRLS’ ODD FIND.
  6 CORNER HOUSE GIRLS ON A TOUR.
  7 CORNER HOUSE GIRLS GROWING UP.
  8 CORNER HOUSE GIRLS SNOWBOUND.
  9 CORNER HOUSE GIRLS ON A HOUSEBOAT.
  10 CORNER HOUSE GIRLS AMONG THE GYPSIES.
  11 CORNER HOUSE GIRLS ON PALM ISLAND.

BARSE & HOPKINS

NEWARK, N. J.—NEW YORK, N. Y.




THE POLLY PENDLETON SERIES

BY DOROTHY WHITEHILL

Polly Pendleton is a resourceful, wide-awake American girl who goes to
a boarding school on the Hudson River some miles above New York. By
her pluck and resourcefulness, she soon makes a place for herself and
this she holds right through the course. The account of boarding
school life is faithful and pleasing and will attract every girl in
her teens.

  1 POLLY’S FIRST YEAR AT BOARDING SCHOOL
  2 POLLY’S SUMMER VACATION
  3 POLLY’S SENIOR YEAR AT BOARDING SCHOOL
  4 POLLY SEES THE WORLD AT WAR
  5 POLLY AND LOIS
  6 POLLY AND BOB

_Cloth, Large 12mo., Illustrated._

BARSE & HOPKINS

_PUBLISHERS_

NEWARK, N. J.—NEW YORK, N. Y.




CHICKEN LITTLE JANE SERIES

By LILY MUNSELL RITCHIE

Chicken Little Jane is a Western prairie girl who lives a happy,
outdoor life in a country where there is plenty of room to turn
around. She is a wide-awake, resourceful girl who will instantly win
her way into the hearts of other girls. And what good times she
has!—with her pets, her friends, and her many interests. “Chicken
Little” is the affectionate nickname given to her when she is very,
very good, but when she misbehaves it is “Jane”—just Jane!

  Adventures of Chicken Little Jane
  Chicken Little Jane on the “Big John”
  Chicken Little Jane Comes to Town

_With numerous illustrations in pen and ink_

BARSE & HOPKINS

_PUBLISHERS_

NEWARK, N. J.—NEW YORK, N. Y.




Dorothy Whitehall Series

_For Girls_

Here is a sparkling new series of stories for girls—just what they
will like, and ask for more of the same kind. It is all about twin
sisters, who for the first few years in their lives grow up in
ignorance of each other’s existence. Then they are at last brought
together and things begin to happen. Janet is an independent go-ahead
sort of girl; while her sister Phyllis is—but meet the twins for
yourself and be entertained.

6 Titles, Cloth, large 12mo., Covers in color.

  1. JANET, A TWIN
  2. PHYLLIS, A TWIN
  3. THE TWINS IN THE WEST
  4. THE TWINS IN THE SOUTH
  5. THE TWINS’ SUMMER VACATION
  6. THE TWINS AND TOMMY JR.

BARSE & HOPKINS

_PUBLISHERS_

NEWARK, N. J.—NEW YORK, N. Y.




THE MARY JANE SERIES

BY CLARA INGRAM JUDSON

Cloth, 12mo. Illustrated.

With picture inlay and wrapper.

Mary Jane is the typical American little girl who bubbles over with
fun and the good things in life. We meet her here on a visit to her
grandfather’s farm where she becomes acquainted with farm life and
farm animals and thoroughly enjoys the experience. We next see her
going to kindergarten and then on a visit to Florida, and then—but
read the stories for yourselves.

Exquisitely and charmingly written are these books which every little
girl from five to nine years old will want from the first book to the
last.

  1 MARY JANE—HER BOOK
  2 MARY JANE—HER VISIT
  3 MARY JANE’S KINDERGARTEN
  4 MARY JANE DOWN SOUTH
  5 MARY JANE’S CITY HOME
  6 MARY JANE IN NEW ENGLAND
  7 MARY JANE’S COUNTRY HOME

BARSE & HOPKINS

_PUBLISHERS_

NEWARK, N. J.—NEW YORK, N. Y.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Corner House Girls Under Canvas, by 
Grace Brooks Hill

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CORNER HOUSE GIRLS UNDER CANVAS ***

***** This file should be named 38742-0.txt or 38742-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/3/8/7/4/38742/

Produced by Roger Frank and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
