Project Gutenberg's Bobby Blake on a Plantation, by Frank A. Warner

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.



Title: Bobby Blake on a Plantation
       Lost in the Great Swamp

Author: Frank A. Warner

Illustrator: Walter Rogers

Release Date: December 6, 2014 [EBook #47553]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BOBBY BLAKE ON A PLANTATION ***




Produced by Roger Frank and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net







[Illustration: Fred and Lee saw a huge alligator almost on top of them.]




BOBBY BLAKE ON A PLANTATION

OR

LOST IN THE GREAT SWAMP

BY

FRANK A. WARNER

Author of “Bobby Blake at Rockledge School,”
“Bobby Blake on a Cruise,” etc.

ILLUSTRATED BY WALTER ROGERS

GROSSET & DUNLAP

PUBLISHERS, NEW YORK




Copyright, 1922 by Barse & Co.

Bobby Blake On A Plantation

Printed in the United States of America




CONTENTS

  I The Sinking Boat
  II Just in Time
  III A Close Call
  IV Facing the Bully
  V Putting One Over
  VI Fire!
  VII At Risk of Life
  VIII An Unexpected Vacation
  IX Off for the South
  X Half a Gale
  XI Quick Thinking
  XII Under Sunny Skies
  XIII Flying Heels
  XIV Baldy Gives In
  XV The Land Shark
  XVI Jim Boolus Appears
  XVII The Runaway Horse
  XVIII A Scoundrel’s Trick
  XIX In Desperate Peril
  XX The Alligator’s Jaws
  XXI A Terrible Moment
  XXII The Distant Howl
  XXIII Tracked by a Panther
  XXIV Swallowed Up by the Bog
  XXV The Hunter’s Cabin
  XXVI A Midnight Prowler
  XXVII The Moccasin Snake
  XXVIII A Great Discovery
  XXIX ’Rastus Abimelech Belshazzar Johnson
  XXX Jim Boolus Trapped




BOBBY BLAKE ON A PLANTATION

CHAPTER I

THE SINKING BOAT


“I tell you what, fellows, that was some game yesterday,” said Fred
Martin, as he sat with his comrades on the steps of Rockledge Hall, the
day after that memorable Thanksgiving Day when Rockledge had beaten its
great rival, Belden, in the annual football game.

“It was a close shave though,” remarked his chum, Bobby Blake, who had
been the chief factor in the victory. “There were only two minutes left
of playing time when, we got the touchdown. It came just in the nick of
time.”

“I thought you were a goner when that fellow Hoskins dove at you,” put
in Jimmy Ailshine, better known as “Shiner.” “That fellow sure is a
terror when it comes to tackling. He grabs you as if you were a
long-lost brother.”

“He came mighty near stopping me,” admitted Bobby. “I just felt his
fingers touch me as I dodged. But a miss is as good as a mile, in
football as in everything else.”

“It was a tough game for Belden to lose,” commented Perry Wise, a big,
fat boy, who went by the ironical nickname of “Pee Wee.” “But both teams
couldn’t win, and we were just a little bit too good for them,” he added
complacently.

“Listen to that ‘we’,” jibed “Sparrow” Bangs. “Lot you had to do with
it, you old elephant.”

“Wasn’t I sitting there rooting to beat the band?” demanded Pee Wee in
an aggrieved tone. “And let me tell you I’m some little rooter.”

“Well, we’ve won the banner of blue and gold anyway,” declared Howell
Purdy. “Maybe it won’t look good floating from the top of that
flagstaff.”

“I wonder when we’re going to get it,” pondered “Skeets” Brody. “Have
you seen it yet, Bobby?”

“Not yet,” replied Bobby. “But Frank Durrock told me all about it. It’s
mighty nifty. It’s made in blue and gold, with a football in the center.
Then at each of the four corners there’ll be the emblem of one of the
schools that played for it, and it will have embroidered on it:
‘Champions of the Monatook Lake Football League.’”

“I’d like to have the letters big enough so that the Belden fellows
could read it from across the lake,” chuckled Sparrow.

“Come off, Sparrow,” said Bobby with a laugh. “You’re like the Indians
who scalp the dead. It ought to be enough for you that we beat them,
without wanting to rub it in. Besides, we didn’t beat them by such a
margin that we can afford to brag much about it. They sure let us know
that we’d been in a fight.”

“Talking of fighting,” chimed in Billy Bassett, “did any of you fellows
hear of the hold up that took place in town this morning?”

“Hold up!” came in a chorus from the lips of all the boys, as they
crowded around him.

“Yes,” replied Billy, “up at Mr. Henderson’s house, about nine o’clock.”

“In broad daylight!” ejaculated Fred. “Gee, but those robbers are
getting bold. Are you sure about it, Billy?”

“Dead sure,” replied Billy. “In fact, I just happened to be passing by,
and I saw the whole thing.”

“You saw it!” cried Sparrow, fairly bubbling over with excitement. “It’s
a wonder you didn’t say something before. How many were there in it?”

“There were two against one,” answered Billy.

“Weren’t you awfully scared?” asked Skeets.

“Not a bit,” declared Billy. “Why should I be scared at seeing two
clothes pins holding up a shirt?”

There was a moment of awful silence.

Then with a howl the crowd rose and threw themselves on Billy, and
mauled and pounded him until he begged for mercy.

“To think that I fell for it!” snorted Fred disgustedly. “I sure am
easy.”

“I’m just as bad,” mourned Sparrow. “I swallowed the whole thing, hook,
line and sinker. I’m not fit to go around alone. They ought to put me in
an asylum for the feeble-minded.”

“Serves you both right,” laughed Bobby. “You ought to know Billy by this
time. Whenever he starts to talk you can be sure that he’s trying to put
something over on us.”

“I’d hate to have your suspicious disposition,” grinned Billy, highly
delighted with the success he had scored.

“Say, fellows, isn’t it getting near time for lunch?” spoke up Pee Wee
from his recumbent position on one of the steps.

“Can’t that tank ever get filled up?” asked Skeets. “Look at the way he
polished off that grand old Thanksgiving dinner, and he’s starving yet.”

“That was yesterday,” explained Pee Wee. “How long do you think one
dinner’s going to last? Don’t you suppose I’ve got to keep up my
strength?”

“What for?” scoffed Skeets. “You’re too lazy to use it anyway.”

“Don’t forget that he’s got a lot of weight to carry around,” admonished
Fred.

“What seems to be the matter down there,” put in Sparrow, pointing to a
tree on the campus about a hundred feet from where the boys were
lounging.

The others followed the direction of Sparrow’s finger and saw two boys
engaged in what seemed to be an angry dispute. Even as they looked, the
larger of the two snatched off the cap of his companion and threw it on
the ground.

“Bill Snath is at it again!” exclaimed Fred, jumping to his feet. “He’s
ragging that new pupil that came in a few days ago, Cartier I think his
name is.”

“Might know that Snath couldn’t stay decent for long,” remarked Skeets.
“He toned down a little after Sandy Jackson skipped out, but now he’s up
to his old tricks. Cartier’s a good deal smaller than he is.”

“That’s the reason Snath’s picking on him,” said Bobby. “Trust that
bully not to tackle anyone of his own size. Come along, fellows, and
let’s see what the trouble’s about.”

They hurried in the direction of the two disputants, even Pee Wee
showing more speed than usual, although even at that he brought up in
the rear.

In the meantime, Snath had added insult to injury by planting his feet
firmly on Cartier’s cap and looking on with a malicious grin on his
face, while his victim tugged at it in vain attempts to regain it.

As the running boys neared the two, Snath caught sight of them, and a
look of disappointment, not unmixed with fear, came into his small, pale
eyes. For a moment he appeared as though about to slink away, but he
thought better of it and stood his ground.

“What’s going on?” asked Bobby, as his eyes went from one to the other.

“Don’t know that that’s any of your business,” growled Snath, a
pasty-faced, loose-jawed youth, with mean eyes set too close together.

“We’ll make it our business, you big bully,” Fred was beginning, when
Bobby placed a restraining hand on his chum’s arm.

“Just a minute, Fred,” he said. “Let’s hear what Cartier has to say
about it,” he went on, turning to the other boy. “How about it, Lee?”

“I was passing by him when he told me to take off my cap to him,”
replied Lee Cartier, a slender, dark-eyed boy with a clean-cut,
intelligent face. “I told him I wouldn’t and then he grabbed it and
threw it on the ground. He’s standing on it now,” and he pointed to the
crumpled cap under the bully’s feet.

“Suppose you let Lee have his cap, Snath,” said Bobby.

“Suppose I don’t,” snarled the bully doggedly.

“Then we’ll make you,” Fred burst out hotly, his face almost as red as
the fiery hair combined with a fiery temper that had gained for him the
nickname of “Ginger.”

But again Bobby intervened.

“Easy, Fred,” he counseled. “Now look here, Snath,” he continued, fixing
his eyes steadily on the bully, who tried to meet his gaze, though his
shifty eyes wavered, “we’ve had enough of this sort of thing in this
school, and we’re not going to stand for any more of it. Sandy Jackson
tried it and couldn’t get away with it, and you’re not going to, either.
Take your foot off that cap.”

“I won’t!” snapped Snath furiously, though there was a perceptible
wobbly movement of his knees. “Who do you think you are anyway, Bobby
Blake? You just quit butting in and let me tend to my own affairs. You
needn’t think you’re running this school.”

“Take your foot off that cap,” repeated Bobby, not raising his voice a
particle, but moving a step forward so that he was within easy reach.

The rest of the boys crowded about the two, all agog with expectation of
a “scrap.” There was not one of them but cordially detested the bully,
and many of them had been the victims of his petty torments. They were
eager to see him get the thrashing he richly deserved, and that they
felt Bobby was fully able to give him.

But Snath was one of those who believed that discretion was the better
part of valor. He hated to give in, with all the boys looking at him,
but he hated still worse the idea of coming to blows with Bobby,
although he was much the larger of the two. His eyes fell on Bobby’s
fists which were slowly clenching, and then with a growl he stepped back
off the cap. He could not resist, however, the temptation to give the
head covering a vicious kick.

“Take your old cap,” he snarled. “As for you, Bobby Blake, I’ll get even
with you for this when you haven’t got your crowd with you.”

“Make him pick it up, Bobby!” shouted Fred, who was disappointed at not
seeing the bully get his just deserts.

But Lee had already picked up the cap and put it on his head, while he
flashed a look of gratitude at his champion.

Snath shambled away with a last malignant look at Bobby that was full of
threats of vengeance in the future.

“It’s too bad you didn’t have an excuse for trimming him, Bobby,” sighed
Sparrow, as the bully’s form vanished round a comer of the building.
“He’s had a licking coming to him for a long time, and you’re the one
who could have done him up to the queen’s taste.”

“I don’t want to fight,” replied Bobby. “I never want to if I can help
it. You know the trouble that came from that mixup with Sandy Jackson.
But there’s been too much of this bullying going on in the school and
it’s just as well to let fellows like Snath know where they get off.”

“He’s got it in for you,” declared Skeets. “Did you see that look he
gave you when he went away? I’ll bet he’s figuring out right now some
dirty trick to play on you.”

“Let him figure,” laughed Bobby. “I should worry a lot and build a house
on it. But what do you say, fellows, to kicking the football around a
little? I’m a little sore from yesterday, and it will help get some of
the kinks out of my bones. Besides it will help us get up an appetite
for lunch.”

All assented readily, except Pee Wee.

“I’ve got all the appetite I want already,” he said. “If I had any more
I’d be starving to death. But you dubs go ahead and play, and I’ll lie
down here and rest.”

“That’s the best thing you do,” chaffed Fred.

“Rest is Pee Wee’s middle name,” jibed Sparrow.

But the good-natured fat boy only smiled in a superior sort of way and
made himself comfortable, while his comrades got the ball and put it in
action. There were not enough of them to form two elevens and play a
regular game, but they got up a couple of skeleton teams and were soon
in the thick of some lively scrimmages.

The new boy, Lee Cartier, had been chosen by Bobby as one of his side,
and although he was not familiar with the fine points of the game, he
played with zest and spirit and showed that he had it in him to become a
good player. What he lacked in weight and strength he made up in
quickness, and he followed the ball in a way that called forth praise
from Bobby.

“That was good work, Lee,” the latter said, after Lee had fallen like a
flash on the ball that one of the opposing players had fumbled.

Lee’s face flushed with pleasure at the commendation.

“I’m afraid I’m a good deal of a dub at the game,” he answered. “If I
could ever learn to play the way you did yesterday it would be something
to talk about. I wish you would teach me the way the game ought to be
played. Will you?”

“I’ve got lots to learn about it myself,” replied Bobby, “but what
little I know you’re welcome to. There’ll probably be lots of days when
we can practice before real cold weather comes.”

Just then a cry of alarm arose from Fred, as he happened to glance
toward the lake.

“Look at that boat!” he shouted. “It looks as if it were sinking!”

All eyes were turned on a boat containing four boys, about a quarter of
a mile from the shore. Two of the occupants were pulling desperately at
the oars, but making scarcely any progress. The other inmates of the
boat were waving their hands wildly and shouting at the tops of their
voices, although what they were saying could not be distinguished at
that distance.

Bobby gave one look and threw down the football.

“Come along, fellows!” he shouted, as he made for the boathouse at the
top of his speed.

“They’re sinking and we’ve got to save them!”




CHAPTER II

JUST IN TIME


There was a wild shout as the other boys followed, and they were close
on Bobby’s heels when he reached the boathouse.

There were several boats in the house, most of them laid up in canvas
coverings, as the weather was becoming so cold that the lake offered no
special attraction. One boat, however, and luckily the one nearest the
doors, was available, and to this Bobby rushed.

“Lend a hand, some of you fellows!” he called. “Some one get two pairs
of oars from the rack. Hurry now! We can’t waste a second.”

In a moment the oars were handed down and put in the boat and Bobby had
thrown open the sliding doors.

Willing hands helped him to push the boat down the slanting way that led
to the float.

“Four of us can go in this,” cried Bobby. “You, Fred, and you, Sparrow,
and—”

“Let me go,” begged Lee, whose eyes were burning with excitement. “I’ve
had a good deal of practice in rowing and I can handle an oar as well as
any one.”

“All right,” agreed Bobby. “Into the water now with the boat.”

The rowboat was shoved into the water and held to the float by Skeets
and Shiner, while Bobby and his three mates tumbled in, grasped the oars
and pulled off.

By this time it was plainly to be seen that the endangered boat was much
lower in the water than it was when it had first been seen. The gunwales
were almost flush with the level of the lake, and the two who had been
rowing had abandoned the oars, as it was impossible to drag the heavily
laden water-logged boat through the water. The occupants had thrown off
their coats, and two of them were tugging away at their shoes,
preparatory to the swim for life that seemed inevitable.

The boys who were left on the shore waved their hands frantically,
shouting to the boys in the sinking boat not to jump, and pointing to
the other boat that was coming to their assistance.

In the meantime, Bobby and his companions were bending to the oars
lustily and putting all their strength into every stroke.

“Keep at it, fellows!” panted Bobby, while the perspiration rolled down
his face. “Don’t stop to look behind. I’ll take a look once in a while
just so as to keep the boat steering right. Pull with all your might!”

His comrades needed no urging, and the boat leaped through the water
with a speed that rapidly cut down the space that still intervened
between it and the sinking craft.

For sinking it was now beyond a doubt. The occupants had for the moment
abandoned the design of springing overboard, and were baling
frantically, using their caps and sweaters and hands in the effort to
keep the doomed boat afloat until their rescuers could reach them.

“If they can only keep afloat two minutes more!” gasped Bobby, as a
glance behind showed him the awful danger. “Don’t spare yourself,
fellows. It may mean life or death. Just two minutes more and we’ll get
them.”

But the two minutes grace could not be granted. They had got within
perhaps a hundred feet, when there was a desperate cry from the inmates
of the sinking boat, which was echoed from the watching crowd on the
shore. The next instant the boat went down by the bow, and its four
occupants were struggling in the lake.

“Pull, fellows, pull!” Bobby fairly screamed, bending almost double with
his own exertions.

And while the other rescuers were following his example, it may be well
for the benefit of those who have not read the earlier volumes of this
series, to trace briefly his adventures and those of his friends up to
the time this story opens.

Bobby Blake was a bright, wide-awake American boy, who had been brought
up in the small but prosperous inland village of Clinton. He was the
only son of parents who were in comfortable circumstances. Bobby was
frank, merry and straightforward, and a great favorite with the boys of
his own age, of whom he was the natural leader.

Bobby’s special chum was Fred Martin, son of a Clinton business man, who
lived only a few doors away from the Blakes. Fred was freckled,
redhaired, and had the hot impulsive temper that often goes with that
color of hair. But he was good and generous of heart, and he and Bobby
got on famously together. Fred was constantly getting into trouble of
one kind or another, and Bobby was kept busy trying to prevent his
friend from reaping the consequences of his quick temper. Bobby never
looked for trouble, though he was always ready to defend his rights and
would not let himself be imposed on. The boys were inseparable, and
wherever one was found the other was pretty sure not to be far away.

When Bobby was ten years old, Mr. Blake was suddenly called away on
business to South America, and as Mrs. Blake was going with him, it
became necessary to send the lad away to boarding school. Bobby and Fred
were feeling very badly over the prospect of their being separated,
when, to the delight of both, their parents decided to send them to
Rockledge School together. The school was a fine one, located on a
beautiful sheet of water called Monatook Lake. Here the chums found that
they had to study hard, but they also had lots of fun and adventure.
Some bullies tried to tyrannize over them, but failed in the attempt,
and how Bobby came out ahead of them is told in the first volume of the
series, entitled: “Bobby Blake at Rockledge School.”

Vacation time found Bobby spending a few weeks at the summer home of
Perry Wise, or “Pee Wee,” the big, fat boy whose laziness and enormous
appetite were a source of good-natured fun for all the Rockledge boys.
Here they had a great variety of sports, for the home was on the sea
coast and there were abundant opportunities for swimming, boating and
fishing. The hunt for a missing motor boat added greatly to the
excitement of their visit.

Their stay was cut short by a message from Bobby’s parents to meet them
at Porto Rico, where they expected to stop on their homeward journey.
Bobby was wild to meet them, the more so because at one time their ship
had been reported as shipwrecked and lost. It was arranged that Fred
should go with him, and the boys embarked in high spirits. Their ship
caught fire, however, and they with others found themselves adrift,
landing at last on a volcanic island, narrowly escaping with their
lives.

“The fellows at Rockledge will hardly believe us when we tell them all
we’ve gone through,” declared Bobby, as they were on their way home.

“It will sound as if we were stretching things,” admitted Fred, “but I
guess they’ll believe us when we cross our hearts. Anyway, we know it’s
true.”

They found the Fall term at Rockledge full of sport and interest and
they had some surprising experiences. Many of these were due to the warm
rivalry that existed between Rockledge and Belden School, a rival
institution on the further side of Monatook Lake.

When the Christmas holidays came, Bobby and a number of his special
chums were invited to visit Snowtop Camp belonging to an uncle of
“Mouser” Pryde. This was up in the Big Woods. There were wildcats near
there, to say nothing of a big bear that made lots of trouble for them
before the boys got the best of him. There was a snowslide too that
buried their house and gave them some lively work to dig themselves out.

With the coming of Spring, the boys of Rockledge were alive with
enthusiasm over baseball. Bobby and Fred became members of the Rockledge
nine, and it was Bobby’s fine work as a pitcher in the most important
games that enabled the Rockledge boys to beat Belden out and win the
baseball championship of the school league.

“I tell you what, he just had the Belden fellows eating out of his
hand,” was the way Jimmy Ailshine, or “Shiner,” as he was called,
expressed his opinion of Bobby’s work in the box.

An entirely new experience came to Bobby when he and Fred and several of
their schoolboy friends went out West to a ranch owned by a relative of
Sparrow Bangs. Here they made friends with the cowboys and learned to
ride, and they also fell in with a moving picture company and took part
in the making of a film. The way they discovered the plot of some
Mexicans and lawless characters and were able to thwart it forms the
subject of a very exciting story.

There was still a part of their vacation left, when they returned from
the ranch, and Skeets Brody urged them to spend this in making a trip in
his father’s automobile. A copperhead snake that took possession of
their cave furnished an exciting feature of the trip, which was further
enlivened by an encounter with gypsies. They rescued two little children
from these vagabonds of the road, though at considerable risk to
themselves, and had the good fortune to restore them to their father.

The boys returned to school in high spirits, and in the intervals of
their studies practiced strenuously in order to “make” the football
team. This time there were two other schools besides Belden that they
had to battle with, and they found their work cut out for them. In fact
they came within an ace of losing the deciding game, but how Bobby rose
to the occasion and carried the ball over the goal line for a touchdown
and a glorious victory is told in the volume preceding this, entitled:
“Bobby Blake On the School Eleven; or, Winning the Banner of Blue and
Gold.”

And now on the very day following that victory, we see Bobby working as
he had never worked before, to save the inmates of the sinking boat from
death in the icy waters of the lake.

The boys who had been thrown into the water when the boat went down rose
to the surface, dashed the water from their eyes and looked wildly about
them.

They spied the advancing boat, which was now close at hand, and two of
them struck out for it. A third tried to swim, but seemed to be so
chilled and bewildered that he could make no progress. He did manage,
however, to keep his head above water. The fourth, it was evident could
not swim at all. He splashed about feebly for a moment and then sank.

By this time Bobby’s boat was right among them. The two foremost
swimmers grabbed the stern, as the boys suspended rowing. Bobby reached
over and grabbed a third one, who almost pulled him out of the boat.

Just then the water broke alongside and the head of the boy who had gone
down appeared. His eyes were glassy, and he was almost unconscious. Lee
was the nearest one to him and reached over to grab him. He caught his
hair, but the drowning boy’s weight was too great, and the boat tipped
so sharply that Lee was dragged over the gunwale.

He came up spluttering and gasping, but still holding on to the other.
Bobby surrendered the boy he was holding to Fred, and grasping an oar
held it out to Lee. The latter caught it and Bobby pulled him up to the
side of the boat.

“Take him in first!” gasped Lee, indicating his helpless burden. “I can
hold on to the boat.”

By using all their strength and being especially careful not to upset
the boat, the rescuers lifted the half drowned boy on board. Then came
Lee’s turn and that of the other three, two of whom managed to clamber
over without help.

“Now,” said Bobby with a sigh of relief, when all were safely in the
boat. “We’ve got to work like beavers to get back to shore. It’s no joke
to be soaked to the skin on so cold a day as this. Here, Lee,” he went
on, turning to the shivering lad, “take this coat of mine.”

“I won’t do it,” said Lee, “You need it yourself.”

“Not a bit of it,” replied Bobby. “I’ve been rowing so hard I’m all in a
sweat, and the work getting home will keep me warmer than I’ll want to
be. You’ve just got to take it.”

Despite Lee’s protest, Bobby put the coat around him. Fred and Sparrow
followed suit with regard to the other boys, whom they made lie down in
the boat so as to escape the wind. Then they took the oars and pulled
vigorously for the shore.

Cheers greeted them as they approached. The news of what was going on
had spread like wildfire, and all of Rockledge School was down at the
shore, including Doctor Raymond, the head of the institution, and Mr.
Leith and Mr. Carrier, two teachers. A doctor also had been summoned and
many of the townspeople had hurried on foot and in autos to the spot.

There was a hubbub of excited exclamations, as the boat reached the
little landing stage. The spectators had seen the figures dragged
aboard, but from that distance could not tell whether some of them were
alive or dead.

The moment the boat slid alongside the float, eager hands were
outstretched to help, and great was the relief when it was found that no
life had been lost.

The rescued ones were hurried up to the school, where their wet clothes
were stripped from them and they were given hot drinks and placed
between warm blankets.

Doctor Raymond was so busy in supervising this work that he had no time
more than to tell the rescuers that he was proud of them and would see
them later in his study. But others crowded around them and made much of
them, while showering them with questions.

“It was nothing at all,” said Bobby with characteristic modesty. “We
simply happened to be nearest and the boat was handy and we piled in and
rowed out to them. Any one else would have done the same if the chance
had come to them, and you fellows are making too much out of it.”

“That’s all very well,” said Skeets Brody with a grin, “but I notice
just the same that when anything has to be done and done in a hurry it’s
Bobby Blake that’s ‘Johnny on the spot’.”




CHAPTER III

A CLOSE CALL


Now that the danger was over, the crowd began to melt away, and the
boys, who in the excitement had forgotten all about lunch, suddenly
remembered that they had been overlooking what was to all of them a duty
and to most of them a pleasure and made a break for the dining hall.

Pee Wee was especially remorseful that he had so far forgotten himself.

“Gee!” he observed, as he took out his watch. “Lunch time has been over
for more than half an hour. I hope they haven’t cleared the table.”

“If they haven’t, you will when you get to it,” jibed Skeets. “That’s
one place where you can be depended on to work.”

“That isn’t work—it’s fun,” admitted Pee Wee, as he started to put his
watch back in his pocket. But in his haste it dropped from his fingers
and fell with a bang to the ground.

There was an exclamation from the boys, who crowded around Pee Wee as he
looked ruefully at the watch, whose crystal had been broken.

“Did it stop?” asked Fred.

“Of course it stopped when it hit the ground,” put in Billy. “What did
you expect it to do—go right through to China?”

Pee Wee favored Billy with a glare that expressed his opinion of that
lad’s frivolity.

“Of all the idiots—” he began, and then words failed him and he tapped
his forehead significantly.

Nothing abashed, the graceless Billy grinned.

“It wasn’t so bad,” he said complacently. “I don’t know how those things
come to me but they do—just like that,” he added snapping his fingers
airily.

“He hates himself—I don’t think,” remarked Fred, making a playful pass
at Billy, who dodged so adroitly that the blow passed over his head and
caught the luckless Pee Wee in the stomach almost making him drop his
watch again.

“Say, what are you up to?” he demanded indignantly, rubbing the injured
spot with his hand. “Haven’t I had hard luck enough for one day without
you fellows rubbing it in?”

“You seem to be doing all the rubbing,” laughed Fred. “Sorry, old boy,
but that stomach of yours is so big that nothing can miss it.”

“Stop picking on poor little Pee Wee,” chuckled Sparrow. “Cheer up, Pee
Wee. What if another Ingersoll did bite the dust? You’ll have a good
excuse now for being late at recitations.”

This silver lining to the cloud was not without its effect on Pee Wee,
and putting the battered watch into his pocket, successfully this time,
he hurried to the dining hall, where the savory odors of the meal that
the housekeeper had prepared soon made him forget all his troubles.

The boys at the tables were bubbling over with interest at the stirring
events they had witnessed, and Bobby and the rest of his crew had all
they could do in answering the questions that were showered upon them.

“Don’t you feel awfully sore and used up, Bobby?” queried Howell Purdy,
his voice a little muffled because his mouth was so full.

“Not so very,” responded Bobby. “I suppose I will to-morrow though. The
second day is always worse than the first.”

“If our boys ever pulled that way in a race, we’d have no trouble in
beating out Belden,” remarked Shiner. “You fellows were simply lifting
that boat out of the water. As it was, you didn’t get there a minute too
soon either.”

“Not a second too soon,” corrected Sparrow. “That fellow who couldn’t
swim will never come nearer to death than he was to-day. My heart was
just about in my mouth when I saw him go down.”

“Lee had a close call too when he was pulled overboard,” put in Skeets.

“Oh, as for that, Lee can swim like a fish,” remarked Fred. “But he got
a wetting just the same and had to sit in his wet clothes until we got
back to the float. I hope it hasn’t hurt him.”

“He isn’t very strong, but he’s as plucky as they make them,” commented
Skeets, “and he certainly knows how to swing an oar.”

“We had one bit of luck to help us out,” said Bobby, “and that was that
one of the boats hadn’t been put away in canvas. If it had been, we
could never have got it out in time. As it was, it was close to the
door, so we could slide it out in a jiffy.”

When at last the meal was finished and even Pee Wee had had enough to
eat, Bobby’s first thought was of Lee. He saw Mr. Carrier hurrying
through the hall and asked him about the Southern boy whom he had
already learned to like very much.

“Lee Cartier was very badly chilled,” was Mr. Carrier’s response, “and
that, combined with over exertion, has made the doctor a little anxious
about him. I guess it would be better for you boys not to see him for a
while. But the other boys are getting along all right, and they just
told me that they would like to see you and the other members of the
boat crew that rescued them. By the way, Blake, you and the other boys
who went with you did nobly to-day and I’m proud of you. It was a
splendid piece of work.”

Bobby flushed at the praise and would have disclaimed any special
credit, but Mr. Carrier smiled and went on. Bobby hunted up Sparrow and
Fred, and the three went to the room which had been placed at the
disposal of the boys they had rescued.

They found the four seated before a glowing fire, wrapped in hot
blankets and eating with evident relish an abundant meal that had been
brought up to them. Apart from their rumpled hair, they bore no sign of
the ordeal through which they had passed, and which had so nearly cost
the lives of all of them.

They jumped to their feet as their three rescuers came in and surrounded
them, shaking hands and offering fervent thanks for the help they had
brought them at the moment of their deepest need.

“Why, you are Belden boys!” exclaimed Bobby, as he took a good look at
them. “I suppose I ought to have known that before, but I was so busy
that I didn’t have a chance to see much of your faces.”

“Then, too, we looked so much like drowned rats that you probably
wouldn’t have recognized us anyway,” laughed the eldest one of the
quartette. “Yes, we’re Belden boys, all right, and live ones too, thanks
to you. If it hadn’t been for you fellows, all four of us would have
been at the bottom of the lake by this time. My name is Wilson and this
is Thompson and this is Livingston and this is Miner,” he added,
introducing himself and his companions.

“I know Livingston and Miner already,” responded Bobby, after having
introduced Sparrow and Fred in turn. “They played against our team in
the football game yesterday.”

“Sure thing,” agreed Livingston, while Miner smiled assent, “and we
didn’t think when we were trying to keep you away from our goal line
then that you’d be saving our lives to-day.”

“Tell us how it all happened,” said Bobby, as the party seated
themselves comfortably before the open fire.

“I suppose it was a bit of foolishness on our part,” replied Wilson, who
seemed by common consent to be the spokesman of the Belden group, “and
I’m the most foolish of the lot, because I was the one who proposed the
trip. We were all feeling a little sore and blue over the defeat our
team suffered yesterday, and to get our minds off it I proposed to the
rest of the fellows here that we should take a row on the lake. We
noticed a little water in the bottom of the boat when we started, but
thought that might be due to the rain we had a few days ago. It was only
when we had got out beyond the middle of the lake that we noticed that
the boat was leaking badly. We tried to stuff the leak with, our
handkerchiefs, but in jabbing them in with an oar, we pushed too hard
and widened the crack so that we could do nothing with it, and the water
began to come in faster than we could bail it out. This side of the lake
was the nearer, and we began to pull toward it as hard as we could. It
was just about that time I guess that you saw us. I tell you we felt
good when we saw you rush to the landing and get out the boat. It braced
us up and made us keep up the fight till the last minute. But toward the
end I thought it was all up with us. Thompson here was the worst off of
any of us, for he can’t swim a stroke.”

“I sure thought that I was a goner,” broke in Thompson. “I think I must
have gone all through the pain of drowning, for the last thing I
remember was that my lungs seemed bursting. I don’t even recall being
pulled into the boat. It sure was a close call.”

“Yes,” agreed Bobby soberly as he gazed into the fire, “it was a close
call.”




CHAPTER IV

FACING THE BULLY


There was silence in the room for a minute or two. The boys all sensed
the nearness of the tragedy that had been so narrowly averted, and each
had an inward shudder as he thought of what might have been.

But though the death angel had passed so close that they had almost
heard the rustling of his wings, here they were after all alive and
safe, and their spirits rose while their hearts swelled with
thankfulness.

“Well,” remarked Wilson, breaking the silence, “this will be a lesson to
me, as the darky said when he was about to be hanged. I don’t get in any
more boats unless they’re as dry as a bone.”

“And even then I’ll keep out of them,” said Thompson with emphasis. “Dry
land is good enough for me, at least, until I learn how to swim.”

“Wouldn’t care to have us row you back to Belden, eh?” queried Bobby
with a grin.

“Not on your life,” laughed Miner. “They’ve ’phoned over that they’ll
send an auto for us and we’ll go back in style. But we’ll never forget
till the last day of our lives what you fellows have done for us. And if
I ever hear any fellow knock Rockledge, he’ll have a fight on his hands
right away.”

Bobby laughed, as he and his two companions rose to go.

“Oh, Belden and Rockledge will have many a fight yet,” he said, “but
they’ll be good-natured fights on the baseball or football fields, and
may the best school win.”

They exchanged hearty farewells with the Belden boys, and went out of
the room and down the corridor. On the way they passed Bill Snath, who
favored them with a malicious stare in passing and uttered the word
“heroes,” in a sneering tone, as he went by. It was spoken in a low
tone, but loud enough for Fred, who was nearest him, to hear it, and his
temper took fire at once.

“What was that you said, Bill Snath?” he demanded, as he turned on his
heel.

“Nobody spoke to you, redhead,” returned Snath, snapping out the epithet
with a good deal of relish.

This was like a spark to powder, and Fred’s face became as red as his
hair.

“You take that back!” he cried, rushing up to Snath, who had stopped and
was regarding him with a tantalizing grin.

“Suppose I don’t, what are you going to do about it?” demanded the
bully, his tone the more confident because he could see behind Fred’s
back the tall figure of Mr. Leith, the head teacher, coming up from the
other end of the hall.

“I’ll show you what I’m going to do about it,” Fred replied, and was
starting to unbutton his coat, when Bobby, who had come up, restrained
him.

“Mr. Leith’s coming, Fred,” he warned him. “Cool off now and come along.
He’s close behind you now.”

There was no need of saying anything else, and Fred by a great effort
restrained himself. Mr. Leith came by and looked curiously at the
flushed face of the boy. He said nothing however, but when he had
reached the other end of the hall stood there as if in meditation.

“It’s lucky for you that he came along just then,” Fred said in a low
tone to the bully. “If you have nerve enough to come somewhere out of
sight of the school, we’ll settle this thing right now.”

“You’re three to one,” Snath replied. “If you were alone I’d make you
sing small.”

“They’ll only go along to see fair play,” answered Fred. “But if you
like, I’ll go with you alone. I’ve taken about all I’m going to take
from you. Bill Snath.”

“You’ll have to take all I care to give you,” drawled Snath, feeling
perfectly safe as long as Mr. Leith was in sight.

As at that moment Mr. Leith began to come back along the hall, there was
nothing more to be done or said and the boys separated, Snath sauntering
toward the teacher with affected nonchalance, while Fred with Bobby and
Sparrow went in the opposite direction.

“That fellow gets my goat,” growled Fred. “He never goes past without a
nasty look or word. He’s getting just as bad as Sandy Jackson, and he
needs to be taken down.”

“He’s aching for a thrashing,” agreed Bobby, “and that’s twice to-day
he’s come near getting it. But if I were you, Fred, I’d take as little
notice of him as I could. If you hadn’t paid any attention to what he
said about heroes, he’d have thought we didn’t hear him, and that would
have made him sore. As it is, he’s tickled to death because he thinks he
put one over on us.”

“But he called me redhead!” exclaimed Fred, “and no one can do that in
earnest without a fight.”

“That of course is different,” admitted Bobby. “I wouldn’t let any one
call me names and get away with it. But as far as we can, the best thing
is to let him alone. Some time or other he’ll get to the end of his
rope, just as his pal did and get out of Rockledge School.”

“I guess Bobby’s about right,” remarked Sparrow. “I suppose it’s always
better to go round a skunk than take a kick at him. But I don’t blame
Fred for feeling sore. I feel the same way.”

The chums went out on the steps of the school, where they found a group
of their friends waiting for them.

“How are the fellows getting along who were nearly drowned?” asked
Skeets.

“Fine and dandy,” replied Fred, who by this time had regained his usual
good nature. “Not one of them is going to kick the bucket. And what do
you think, fellows? They’re all Belden boys.”

“Belden boys!” echoed Shiner. “Our chief rivals! That’s what you call
heaping coals of fire on their head.”

“I guess coals of fire would have felt comfortable when they were out in
the lake,” laughed Mouser. “But I’m mighty glad they’re getting along
all right. If any of them had died, I’d expect to hear their ghosts
walking about the halls of the building to-night.”

“Listen, to him talk,” said Howell Purdy scornfully. “You can’t hear
ghosts walk. They just float around as soft as anything.”

“That’s right,” came in a chorus from the boys, who had involuntarily
gathered a little closer together at the talk of ghosts.

“No, he isn’t right,” chirped up Billy. “Mouser had it straight when he
talked about hearing ghosts walking.”

“There you are,” said Mouser, glad of the reinforcement.

“It’s easy enough to say that,” put in Howell, “but how are you going to
prove it? All the books I ever read say that they don’t make any noise.
You can’t bear them coming. So what do you make of that?” he added
turning triumphantly toward Billy.

The latter however seemed not to be a bit disturbed.

“All the same I’m right,” he asserted with quiet confidence.

“How can you prove it?” demanded Howell defiantly.

“That’s the talk” came from the others. “Prove it, Billy. Put up or shut
up.”

“All right,” replied Billy, accepting the challenge. “I know that ghosts
walk because I’ve heard them do it!”




CHAPTER V

PUTTING ONE OVER


There was a shout of amazement from the boys in which could be detected
an element of unbelief and derision. But there was also a note of awe
that was balm to Billy’s soul. Any one who was so familiar with the
supernatural was not to be regarded lightly. Billy felt that he had
scored a decided hit and swelled out his chest importantly.

“When did you hear them walk?” asked Skeets, looking about him a little
apprehensively.

“You’re just kidding,” declared Shiner, stoutly. “I don’t believe a word
of it.”

“I think that Billy’s getting us on a string,” affirmed Fred, although
his eager eyes showed that he was none too sure of it.

Billy waited for the storm of protest and comment to subside.

“I mean just what I said,” he affirmed. “Cross my heart and hope to die
if I don’t.”

This solemn affirmation helped to quell the doubters, especially as
there was nothing to arouse suspicion in Billy’s sober face.

“Well then, tell us all about it,” urged Mouser, who was anxious to
obtain confirmation of his own belief.

“It was in our town when old General Bixby was buried,” explained Billy,
amid a silence in which one could have heard a pin drop. “There was a
big turnout and the band played awful solemn music.”

He paused for a moment.

“Yes, go on, go on,” urged Skeets excitedly. “Was it then that you heard
the ghosts walk?”

“Yes,” replied Billy. “It was then that I heard the Dead March.”

There was a moment of stupefaction, as the idea filtered into the minds
of Billy’s dupes. Bobby grasped it first.

“Run, Billy run!” he counseled. “They’ll kill you for that!”

But Billy had already edged his way to the rim of the group and by the
time they lunged for him was safely out of reach. Then he danced a jig
and went through various gestures expressive of his pity and contempt
for the victims who had let themselves so readily be taken in.

“It’s too easy,” he shouted. “It really isn’t sportsmanlike to take
advantage of such innocent boobs. It’s like taking candy from a baby.”

“It’s no use,” declared Bobby. “Billy is a hopeless case.”

“He sure is,” agreed Mouser, whose faith in ghosts had received a severe
bump. “I was watching his face too, but he was so sober that I fell for
it and fell good and hard. The only satisfaction is that the rest of you
fell for it too.”

Just then Dr. Raymond, the head of the school approached, and the boys
subsided. The doctor smiled pleasantly at the group and singled out
Bobby.

“I’d like to have you come to my office in a few minutes, Blake,” he
said, “and you also Martin and Bangs. I have something to say to you.”

“Very well, sir,” the boys assented.

The doctor passed on, and the boys looked at each other. Usually an
invitation to the doctor’s office portended something unpleasant, and
was not looked forward to with any degree of enthusiasm.

“Now you’re going to catch it,” chaffed Skeets.

“What have you roughnecks been up to now?” demanded Shiner with mock
severity.

“Perhaps he’s going to scold you for falling for my jokes,” Billy rubbed
it in.

But the three who had been summoned only smiled. There had been times
after midnight spreads and other escapades, when such an invitation
would have made them decidedly uneasy. But just at the moment their
consciences were clear, and it was without misgiving that a few minutes
later they knocked at the doctor’s door and were told to come in.

The doctor was seated at his desk, but rose as they entered and motioned
them to seats. He was a tall, rather spare man of middle age, with keen
eyes and the face of a scholar, in which could be seen also the
experience of a man of affairs. There was an air of natural dignity
about him that warned any one that he would be an unsafe man to trifle
with. But although he was a strict disciplinarian and the boys stood in
wholesome awe of him, he was yet tolerant and broadminded and absolutely
just. Any boy that was summoned before him for an alleged offense could
be certain of being heard in his own defense, and of getting a “square
deal;” and wherever possible, justice would be tempered with mercy.

He had built up a reputation for Rockledge School that was spread far
and wide. His instructors were well chosen, the manners and morals of
the boys were carefully looked after, and parents had no hesitation in
confiding their boys to his keeping. The institution was fortunate in
its location, standing on the shores of Monatook Lake, a beautiful body
of water, which afforded facilities for bathing, boating and fishing in
Summer and for skating and other ice sports in Winter. In addition to
these natural advantages, the school had a well-equipped gymnasium and
excellently laid out fields for football, baseball and other sports. For
training both the mind and the body, Rockledge School left little to be
desired; and this was so well understood in that part of the country
that there was usually a waiting list of applicants for admission to the
strictly limited number of pupils.

“I have sent for you boys,” the doctor said, after they had seated
themselves, “to thank you on behalf of myself and the school for the
gallant thing you did to-day in saving those boys from drowning in the
lake. It took a lot of pluck and hard work, and I’m proud of you.”

The boys looked embarrassed.

“How is Lee Cartier getting along, Dr. Raymond?” asked Bobby eagerly,
glad to change the subject. “Mr. Carrier told me that he wasn’t well
enough for us to see him.”

The doctor’s face took on a worried look.

“It’s a little early to tell yet,” be replied. “Dr. Evans, who has just
gone, told me that the drenching he had received and the exposure
afterward while you were getting back to shore had been a severe shock
to his system. He comes from the South, you know, and hasn’t been up
here long enough to get hardened to our climate. There is a possibility
that he may be in for a serious illness. Still, we’ll hope for the best.
I won’t keep you any longer,” he said, rising as a signal of dismissal,
“but I want once more to say to you that you have done honor to
yourselves and the school.”

The boys bowed themselves out and closed the door behind them.

“The doctor’s a brick, isn’t he?” remarked Fred, as they went down the
hall.

“You bet he is,” agreed Sparrow. “He’s the real goods.”

“He’s all wool and a yard wide,” was Bobby’s tribute to the head of
Rockledge School.

A week passed swiftly by and then another, and by that time Winter had
come in earnest. There had as yet been no snow, but the weather had
become intensely cold and the lake was beginning to freeze over. At
first, the ice looked like a gigantic spider’s web shooting out in
shimmering threads until the entire surface was covered with a crystal
coating. Then the ice began to thicken at the shores, and it was evident
that with the continuance of the cold weather it would soon be possible
to skate from one end of the lake to the other.

Skates were gotten out and polished and sharpened. Some of the boys
busied themselves with making ice sails, which they could hold in their
hands and which would carry them like the wind along the glassy surface
without the expenditure of any effort of their own, save what was
required to hold the sails. This contrivance had a special appeal to Pee
Wee, who was a profound believer in any device that would save labor. He
was far too lazy however to make one for himself and had written home
asking his folks to buy and send him one. To the other boys’ suggestion
that it be especially reinforced or made of sheet iron, he turned a deaf
and scornful ear.

But before the ice was quite hard enough to be trusted, the snow took a
hand. Up to then there had been nothing but a few flurries that did
scarcely more than whiten the ground. But one afternoon, as the boys
came out of their last recitations, they saw that the skies were
lowering and that a steady snowstorm was in progress.

Ordinarily this would have been welcomed, but just now the boys had
their minds set on skating, so that the sight of the whirling flakes was
something of a disappointment.

“There goes our skating up the flue,” commented Shiner, as he looked on
the ground on which there was already an inch of snow. “The lake will be
no good, if it’s all covered with snow.”

“And by the time the snow’s ready to melt, the ice will melt too,”
mourned Sparrow.

“And I just got a notice from the express company this morning that my
ice sail was there,” complained Pee Wee.

“Oh, stop your grouching, you poor fish,” said Bobby. “In the first
place the snow may not amount to anything. In the second place, if it
does, we can get busy and sweep off enough of the ice on the lake to
skate on. And in the third place, what we may miss in skating we can
make up in coasting.”

  “‘The fellow worth while is the one that can smile
  When everything’s going dead wrong,’”

chanted Skeets. “I guess that means Bobby,” he added, giving the latter
a nudge in the ribs.

“Well, what have we got to growl about anyway?” said Fred, falling into
his chum’s mood. “Here we are well and strong and able to put away three
square meals a day”—here Pee Wee pricked up his ears. “Now if we were
shut up in a room like Lee Cartier, we might have something to kick
about.”

“Poor Lee!” remarked Bobby regretfully. “He’s certainly had a rough
deal. He’s lucky of course that he didn’t get pneumonia. But it’s no
joke to be kept in his room so long. I’m going over to see him for a
while as soon as supper is over.”

Which he did, accompanied by Fred and Sparrow, who had expressed a
desire to go along.




CHAPTER VI

FIRE!


The other schoolboys found Lee in the private room that had been set
apart for him, propped up with pillows in a big easy chair and wrapped
snugly in a bathrobe. His face was pale from his illness, but it lighted
up when he saw his visitors.

“I was just wishing you fellows would drop in,” he said, as they shook
hands with him and pulled their chairs up close.

“It must get awful poky cooped up in the room so long,” said Bobby
sympathetically.

“It sure does,” rejoined the boy from the South. “Of course I have books
to read that help to pass away the time, but that isn’t like being with
the fellows. Not that I’ve read very much this afternoon,” he went on,
“because I’ve been too busy looking at the snow. Do you know that this
is the first real snow storm I have ever seen?”

“Is that so?” queried Fred in astonishment. “We see so much of it every
year that it gets to be an old story with us.”

“You’ve got an awful lot of fun coming to you,” put in Sparrow. “There’s
skating and ice sailing and coasting and snowballing and lots of
things.”

“Not forgetting muskratting and fishing through the ice,” added Fred.
“Maybe we didn’t have a lot of fun the winter we spent up in Snowtop
Camp, eh, fellows?”

“You bet we did,” agreed Sparrow, and launched into a long description
of that memorable winter holiday in the Big Woods, not forgetting the
bear and the wildcat and the snowslide that buried the house, and other
adventures, to all of which Lee Cartier listened with the most rapt
attention and interest.

“It must have been great,” he murmured with a sigh of envy. “I can see
that I’ve got a lot of fun waiting for me as soon as I can get outdoors
again. And I hope it won’t be long till then. The doctor said to-day
that I could probably be outdoors in a week.”

“That’s bully,” said Bobby. “But do you really mean, Lee, that you’ve
never seen snow before?”

“Oh, I’ve seen little flurries of it once or twice,” replied Lee, “but
it’s never amounted to anything, and it’s melted just as soon as it
struck the ground. Down in Louisiana, where I come from, it’s
practically summer all the year round. While it’s been snowing here
to-day, people have been going in swimming down there. The darkeys are
going round barefooted, women are fanning themselves, and men are going
round on the shady side of the street.”

“Nobody getting sunstruck, is there?” queried Fred with a grin.

“Well, perhaps not as bad as that,” smiled Lee, “but take it altogether
it’s almost as different there from what it is here as day is from
night.”

“I saw a picture the other day of some boys shinning up cocoanut trees
somewhere in the middle of January,” remarked Sparrow. “It seems funny
to think there should be such differences in the same country.”

“I’d like to spend some time down South,” said Bobby. “I’ve been out
West and almost everywhere else in the country except the South. Of
course we had a taste of what it was like when we went to Porto Rico.
But I’d like to be somewhere in the South for weeks at a time, and learn
just how different things are from what they are here up North.”

“You’d enjoy it all right,” affirmed Lee. “You can fairly live outdoors
all the year round, and you’d find lots of things that would be strange
and interesting. I’d like to have you on my place where I could go round
with you and show you the sights.”

“That would be fine,” agreed Bobby. “What town in Louisiana do you live
in, Lee?”

“I don’t live in any town,” replied Lee. “The nearest town is Raneleigh,
and that isn’t much more than a store and a railroad station. Mother and
I live on a plantation. My folks have lived there for generations. My
great-grandfather had the property in the old days when Louisiana
belonged to France.”

“I guessed you were French or of French descent because of the name,”
said Bobby. “Let’s see, wasn’t there a Cartier who had something to do
with the discovery of America?”

“There was a Cartier who discovered parts of America in 1534,” replied
Lee, “and he, I believe, was an ancestor of mine. That’s one bit of
history that’s been pretty well dinned into me,” he added with a smile.
“Our people, you know, put a lot of value on their ancestry, though I
never cared much for it. My mother too was of French descent, as one can
tell from her first name, Celeste.”

“Is the plantation a big one?” asked Bobby.

“Pretty big,” replied Lee, “though not as big as it was before the Civil
War. That was in the days when people kept slaves, and our folk had a
lot of them and thousands of acres of land. But after the war was over,
a lot of the land was sold, and now we have only a few hundred acres.
And I don’t know how long we’ll have that,” he added, a shadow coming
over his brow.

“What do you mean?” asked Fred with ready sympathy.

“Oh, we’re having trouble about the boundary lines of the property,”
explained Lee. “Some of the stones that mark the lines are missing, and
there’s a neighbor of ours named Boolus who’s claiming part of the
property. We’re sure he is wrong, but we’re not able to prove it, and
he’s making us lots of trouble. He’s one of the meanest men in the
parish and everybody hates and despises him. But he’s got lots of money
and tricky lawyers, and it looks as though he were going to get the best
of us. But I don’t want to bother you about my troubles,” Lee added,
brightening up. “I only wish I had you fellows down with me on the
plantation while we still own it. I think I might be able to show you
lots of things that would make you open your eyes, such as alligators
and—”

“Alligators!” exclaimed Fred. “Do you have them down there?”

“You see you’ve made Fred open his eyes already,” said Bobby with a
laugh.

“There are lots of them,” said Lee, “and big ones too. There’s a big
swamp on the edge of our property that they say is full of them. It’s
lots of fun hunting them.”

“Have you ever hunted them?” asked Sparrow with intense interest.

“I’ve never gone after them alone,” replied Lee, “but I’ve gone along
with hunting parties and seen them caught.”

“How do they do it?” asked Fred.

“They dig them out of their holes,” explained Lee, pleased that he could
tell the boys something outside the range of their experience. “You see
the alligators have holes or burrows in the neighborhood of the water,
where they crawl in at times. The hunters go along until they spy one of
these burrows, which are not very deep below the surface of the ground.
Then one of them takes a stout rope, makes a noose in it and hangs this
over the entrance to the hole. Others take a sharp spear or stake, and
prod into the ground above where they know the alligator is lying. That
stirs him up and he crawls out of his hole to see what’s the matter. As
he comes out he sticks his head into the noose, and the man above
tightens it before he can back out. The brute tries to pull back into
his burrow, but all hands get hold of the rope and yank him out. As his
body appears, other ropes are passed around him, and by the time he’s
all out he’s pretty well trussed up. Sometimes though, he puts up an
awful fight and breaks the ropes, and then you have to look out. If you
ever come within reach of his jaws or the swish of his tail, it’s all up
with you.”

“It must be awfully exciting,” exclaimed Fred.

“It is that all right,” agreed Lee. “Then we have lots of other sports
in which there’s plenty of fun. There’s badger hunting, and coon hunting
with the dogs at night, and once in a while a panther comes round, and
take it altogether there isn’t much dullness on the plantation. I only
wish you fellows could share the fun with me.”

“There’s nothing I’d like better,” said Bobby, and his companions nodded
assent. “But Louisiana’s a long way off, and I guess we’ll have to take
it out in wishing. I suppose we’ll have to go now,” he added, reaching
for his cap, “though I’d like to stay for hours and hear you tell us
things about the South.”

“It’s done me a lot of good to have you fellows drop in,” said Lee. “The
days seem mighty long here with no one but the doctor and the nurse to
see and talk to. Come in again just as often as you can.”

“We sure will,” replied Bobby, “and you must hurry and get well so as to
be around with us again.”

That night Bobby found it hard to get to sleep. The talk with Lee had
brought novel ideas into his mind, and he lay awake for a long time,
conjuring up visions of what life must be on a plantation.

When at last he did fall asleep, he dreamed that he was pushing a
flatboat along a Louisiana lagoon. On the shores about him were a number
of what seemed to be logs of wood. Suddenly one of them moved and
slipped into the water, and he saw that it was an alligator. One after
the other, things that looked like logs did the same. The presence of so
many of the ugly brutes made him uneasy, and he made his craft move
faster to get out of the vicinity as soon as possible. Just as he was
congratulating himself that he had gotten out of the danger zone, the
water broke at the side of the boat, and a pair of great jaws appeared,
above which were the menacing eyes of a big alligator. The brute made a
lunge at the boat and nearly overturned it. Bobby tried to beat him off
with the pole, and while he was doing so, another alligator appeared on
the other side of the boat. A moment more and the water was fairly alive
with the fearsome creatures, and Bobby was surrounded by a circle of
open jaws and frightful teeth and flaming eyes. He struck out
desperately, but to no avail. The circle closed around him, and one of
the brutes with a blow of his tail stove in the side of the boat. He
felt himself sinking, saw a terrible pair of jaws reach out to seize him
and—woke up to find himself sitting bolt upright in bed while a cold
sweat bedewed his forehead.

It was a minute or so before he could realize that it had been only a
dream, and then with a feeling of immense relief he adjusted his pillow
and burrowed his head into its soft folds.

The snow was beating against the windows, and the contrast between the
wintry storm and the hot lagoon of his dream brought a smile to his
lips.

“Gee!” he said to himself. “If any alligators were up this way they’d
freeze to death sure.”

He lay listening in dreamy content, when he became conscious of another
noise that was not like that of the snow on the windows. It sounded more
like a crackling. He sat up in bed and listened. The sound became more
distinct. And then to his nostrils came the odor of smoke.

He was out of bed in a twinkling. He opened the door of his room and the
odor grew stronger. He traced it along the hall to the door of a
storeroom at the end of the corridor.

He flung open the door and fell back appalled. The storeroom was a
seething mass of fire!




CHAPTER VII

AT RISK OF LIFE


For a moment Bobby’s heart stood still.

The next instant he had slammed the door shut, so as to prevent the
spread of the flames as much as possible. Then he raced through the
hall, banging on the doors of the various rooms and shouting at the top
of his voice:

“Fire! Fire! The school is on fire!”

There was a sound of answering shouts from the startled inmates of the
rooms, and doors were torn open, showing frightened and bewildered
faces.

Not stopping for a moment, Bobby ran up the stairs to the room where
hung the great bell of the school. He grasped the rope and pulled it
back and forth with all his might, and the bell sent out its clangor
into the night, rousing the people from their slumbers for miles around.

Down the stairs Bobby sprang and rushed to the telephone. He called up
the fire station in the town of Rockledge and told the news, getting an
answer that the engine would be rushed out as fast as possible.

Then Bobby ran back to his room, pushing his way through the confused
and shouting groups of boys who had rushed into the halls in all stages
of dress and undress, and began hurriedly to slip on his own clothes,
answering as well as he could the questions put by Fred, who was already
nearly dressed.

“Are the fellows all out?” asked Fred, as he slipped on his jacket.

“I guess so,” replied Bobby, as he finished lacing his shoes. “I banged
on all the doors, and then too the ringing of the bell would wake the
dead. I passed most of them already out in the hall. Oh, but there’s
Lee!” he fairly shouted, jumping to his feet. “His room is off from the
rest and it’s just across from where the fire is! We’ve got to get him
out.”

He threw open the door and started down the hall. But just then flames
burst through the door of the burning room and swept completely across
the hall, barring the passage.

Like a flash, Bobby was back in the room. He seized a towel and thrust
it into the pitcher of water that stood on the washstand. Then he wound
the dripping folds about his head.

“Take the pitcher and dash the rest of the water over me!” he shouted to
Fred. “Quick!”

Fred did so and Bobby darted out of the room.

Down the hall he went and made a flying leap through the flames holding
his breath as he did so, in order that he might not inhale the fire. He
reached Lee’s door and rushed in.

The room was full of smoke, and Lee, half stupefied by it and hardly
knowing what he was doing was staggering about. Bobby grabbed him by the
arm and shook him.

“Brace up, Lee!” he cried.

With the other hand he picked up a heavy bathrobe and threw it over
Lee’s head and shoulders. Then he started to lead him to the door, but
Lee had not been on his feet for so long that his knees gave way under
him.

At that instant, Fred, who had also drenched himself from head to foot,
appeared at his side, and Bobby heaved a sigh of relief.

“Let’s wrap his head and shoulders in this bathrobe,” panted Bobby.
“Then you take his feet and I’ll take his head, and we’ll make a break
to get through.”

Fred helped as directed, and closing their eyes when they neared the
darting flames, they got through with their burden just in time to
deliver Lee into the hands of Dr. Raymond and Mr. Carrier, who had come
rushing in half dressed from the adjoining building. The
half-unconscious boy was taken to a safe place and ministered to, and
then Dr. Raymond and the teachers turned their attention to fighting the
fire, first having made sure that all the pupils were accounted for.

By this time the flames had gained considerable headway, and had broken
through the partitions into adjoining rooms. Hand grenades were brought
into use, but could do little toward checking the fire. Then a bucket
brigade was organized, and the boys worked like Trojans in passing the
buckets from hand to hand. But the flames were not entirely extinguished
until help arrived from the town. Then a powerful stream was turned on
and the fire was speedily gotten under control.

It was after midnight before the danger was over, and much later than
that when the fire company thought it safe to depart, leaving one of
their number to guard against any renewal of the flame from the sodden
and smouldering embers.

Then the boys, who were utterly fagged out by the excitement and the
hard work they had been doing, had time to take an account of matters.
Some of the rooms had been burned out altogether, including that
occupied by Bobby and Fred. They had had time however to remove most of
their clothes and personal belongings, but the other contents of the
rooms were practically a total loss.

Personally they had gotten off with only trifling hurts and burns.
Fred’s hair had been singed and Bobby’s hands had some blisters,
incurred by that rapid rush through the flames, and some of the other
boys had minor injuries, incurred chiefly in the effort to save their
belongings. But none had perished and none had been seriously hurt, and
in this they found ample reason for thanksgiving.

“Gee, Bobby, but it was lucky that you woke up just then!” exclaimed
Shiner. “If you hadn’t, a lot of us might have been burned to death.”

“It’s lucky that I had that nightmare,” replied Bobby with a grin, and
he narrated the details of his fight with the alligators in his dream.
“If I hadn’t been shocked awake by that,” he concluded, “I’d have been
as sound asleep as the rest when the fire broke out.”

“It was an awful plucky thing that you and Fred did when you went
through the fire for Lee,” commented Mouser. “A little later and nobody
could have got to him and he’d have been a goner sure.”

“I only hope it hasn’t set him back,” replied Bobby. “He wasn’t in shape
to stand much excitement.”

Dr. Raymond and the rest of the teaching staff came up just then to make
arrangements for the sleeping quarters of the boys who had been turned
out of their rooms. Some were doubled up in rooms that had been left
intact, and others were taken over in the adjoining wing, where some
spare cots were installed for their use. None of the boys felt that they
could sleep any more that night, but they obeyed orders just the same,
and as a matter of fact all of them were asleep long before morning
dawned.

Having seen them all provided for, the doctor went back to his quarters,
but not without first having a word with Bobby and Fred.

“Again the school and myself are under a debt to you, Blake,” he said.
“You have shown again the quality of which I spoke to you two weeks ago,
that of quick thinking. There is no doubt that if you and Martin had not
acted as you did in regard to Cartier, he would have died in the
flames.”

“I never thought much of nightmares,” Bobby said to Fred, later on, as
they crept into bed, “but I sure am glad I had that one. That dream
alligator that nearly had his teeth in me was the best friend I ever
had.”

“Yes,” agreed Fred, “and I’ll tell the world that he was the best friend
Rockledge School ever had.”




CHAPTER VIII

AN UNEXPECTED VACATION


The boys bad been told before they retired that there would be no
lessons the next day, and the breakfast hour was put one hour later, to
the satisfaction of all but Pee Wee, who was inclined to question the
wisdom of the arrangement. To put off a meal on any pretext was to him a
violation of the proper order of things. Still, as it occurred to him
later, there was some satisfaction in the thought that he would have a
better appetite and be able to eat more; and this reconciled him to the
situation.

Of course there was only one topic of conversation among the boys during
and after the meal. The fire had banished everything else from their
minds and conjecture was rife as to what changes if any it would make in
the routine of the school. The incidents of the night were gone over
from every angle, and the part that Bobby and Fred had played was more
discussed than any other feature.

The boys made an inventory also of their personal losses. In most cases
that was not great. One or two had forgotten watches or scarf pins in
the confusion, but cherished the hope that some of these might be found
in the debris when the ruins had time to cool.

“I hope you didn’t lose your joke book, Billy,” remarked Shiner.

“I hope you did,” put in Fred with a grin.

Billy looked scornfully at his would-be-tormentors.

“I don’t have to depend on any joke book,” he replied loftily. “I get
the best things I spring on you dubs right out of here,” and he touched
his forehead.

“How can you?” queried Sparrow. “Mr. Leith was telling us the other day
that you couldn’t get anything out of a vacuum because there wasn’t
anything in it.”

Billy favored him with a stony stare.

“Just to prove to you that you’re wrong,” he said, “I’ll ask you fellows
a simple question, and I’m willing to bet that none of you can answer
it. That’ll show where the vacuums are.”

There was no immediate acceptance of the challenge, and the scorn in
Billy’s eyes became more pronounced.

“Just as I thought,” he announced. “Every one of you has rooms to let in
his upper story.”

“Oh, well,” remarked Mouser, stung into acceptance, “we’ve stood so many
of Billy’s jokes that one more won’t count. Go ahead, Billy, and get it
off your chest.”

The invitation was none too cordial, but Billy pounced on it.

“All right,” he said, “here’s the question. What’s the best material for
footwear?”

“You tell him, razor, you’re sharp,” murmured Shiner.

“You tell him, garter, you’ve got the snap,” remarked Howell.

“You tell him, goldfish, you’ve been round the globe,” put in Fred.

Billy glared at the dispensers of these frivolities.

“You fellows are just trying to gain time to think up an answer,” he
remarked cuttingly. “Come across now with the answer and prove that
you’re not the dumb-bells I think you are.”

“Why, leather is the best material for footwear I suppose,” hazarded
Bobby.

“Wood lasts a long time; lots of people wear nothing but wooden shoes in
Holland and other places in Europe,” suggested Skeets.

“How about canvas?” queried Shiner. “I’ve got a pair of tennis shoes
that I’ve had for more than two years, and they’re almost as good as
ever.”

“All wrong,” pronounced Billy. “You’ll have to do better than that.”

They cudgeled their brains, but the list of possibilities seemed about
exhausted, and at last they gave it up.

“Well, Billy, let’s have it,” said Fred. “What is the best material for
footwear?”

“Banana peels,” Billy answered promptly.

The boys looked blankly at each other.

“Come again,” urged Mouser, “I don’t get you.”

“Why, you fatheads,” said Billy, “even you ought to know that banana
peels make the best slippers.”

What might have happened to the perpetrator of this outrage will never
be known, for at that moment a summons came from Dr. Raymond for all the
boys to come to the assembly hall of the school.

When they obeyed and had all taken their places, Dr. Raymond, who was
seated on the platform with Mr. Leith and Mr. Carrier, and who looked
worn and haggard after a sleepless night, arose to speak.

“The fire of last night was of course a great misfortune,” he said among
other things, “not especially in a financial sense, for, as you may be
glad to know, the building and furniture were fully covered by
insurance. But it is regrettable that so many dormitory rooms were
destroyed, for it makes it necessary for some of the pupils to suspend
their studies for the month or more that may be necessary before the
part of the school damaged by fire can be rebuilt. It may be necessary
for them to work a little harder when they return in order to make up
for lost time. With the exception of those who are thus excused, the
work of the school will go on as usual. While we all are sorry that the
fire occurred, that after all counts for little compared with the fact
no one was seriously injured. I want before you all to say publicly what
I have already said to them personally, that Blake and Martin by their
quick thinking and brave action have brought credit to themselves and
honor to Rockledge School.”

Following his remarks, he read the list of those who would be given the
unexpected and yet most welcome vacation. The boys listened
breathlessly, each one hoping that he might be among the favored ones,
and when the reading finished there were many stifled sighs of
disappointment on the part of the majority, while the eyes of the elect
glowed with satisfaction. Bobby and Fred were on the list, as well as
Mouser and Shiner and Lee, but none of their other close friends were
included in the dozen or more to be excused.

The exodus was not to take place for a day or two, because time was
required for packing and for proper notification of their parents.
Telegrams were already coming in from the latter who had heard or read
of the fire, and the teaching staff had plenty of work in sending
reassuring messages in reply. How the fire had started was a mystery.

When finally the boys were dismissed, they gathered in groups,
discussing eagerly the program that had been mapped out by the head of
the school. Some were jubilant, others despondent.

“Scubbity-yow!” cried Fred, executing a jig. “Best news I’ve heard since
Sitting Bull sat down.”

“I love my books, but, oh! you vacation,” chuckled Shiner.

“If you fellows fell in the water, you’d come up with a fish in your
mouth,” remarked Billy enviously.

“Never mind, Billy,” comforted Fred. “You’ll have all the more time to
think up some poor jokes to spring on us when we get back.”

“I don’t know any poor ones,” replied Billy. “All of mine are good, too
good anyway for you boobs to guess, I notice. By the way,” he continued,
brightening up visibly, “here’s one of the best I ever thought of. Why
is—”

“Officer, he’s crazy again,” groaned Fred.

“Choke him off, somebody,” urged Mouser.

“But listen,” pleaded Billy.

“Not on your life,” was Shiner’s heartless rejoinder. “Here’s where we
get a chance, fellows, to make Billy stew in his own juice. It’ll break
his heart to have a joke all ready to spring and nobody to listen to
it.”

“But you fellows don’t know what you’re missing,” warned Billy. “Why
ought a cook—”

“We’ll admit she ought, right off the reel,” interrupted Skeets, “so
suppose we let it go at that.”

But Billy was not to be shaken from his prey, and he held on like grim
death.

“Why ought a cook to get good wages?” he demanded.

“Because she needs the dough,” replied Mouser promptly. The suddenness
of the response nearly took Billy off his feet.

“You must have heard that somewhere,” he said in a crestfallen way.

“Noah sprang that on Mrs. Noah when they were in the Ark,” jibed Mouser.

“I knew you wouldn’t have guessed it of your own accord,” retorted
Billy, getting at least that much satisfaction out of his discomfiture.

Shortly after dinner, Bobby and Fred went to call on Lee. They found him
in much better condition than they had expected. They had feared that
the excitement of his experience the night before might have given him a
set-back, but on the contrary his eyes were bright, and there was more
color in his face than had been there at any time since he had been
taken ill.

He was fervent in his thanks to Bobby and Fred for having saved his
life, but they waved these aside and made as light of their own part in
the proceedings as possible.

“It would certainly have been all up with me if it hadn’t been for you
fellows,” declared Lee. “I suppose the smoke must have stupefied me
before you came, because I can just remember staggering about the room
without even having sense enough to find the door. It was an awfully
plucky thing for you boys to do, and I owe it to you that I’m not dead
this minute.”

“You certainly look to be far enough from dead now,” laughed Bobby.

“Perhaps the shock and shaking up did me good instead of harm,” rejoined
the boy from the South. “I certainly feel better than I did at this time
yesterday.”

“All the same, I guess the doctor wouldn’t prescribe it,” said Fred with
a grin.

“Probably not,” smiled Lee. “By the way I hear that you two fellows are
going to have a vacation.”

“Right you are,” chuckled Fred. “And maybe we’re not tickled to death
about it, eh, Bobby?”

“You bet!” returned Bobby happily. “But you’re on the list too, Lee,
although for that matter you’ve been having about all the vacation you
wanted for the last two weeks.”

“That was the wrong kind of vacation.”

“Of course you’ll have to spend it here,” conjectured Fred.

“I’m not so sure of that,” replied Lee. “I was speaking to the doctor
this morning and he said he thought I’d be able to make the trip home in
two or three days from now. He thinks the warm southern weather is just
what I need to bring me around all right again. So I telegraphed to my
mother this morning about it and asked her to answer right away.”

He had barely finished speaking when there was a knock at the door, and
a messenger entered with a telegram.

“Here it is now!” exclaimed Lee, his face lighting up with expectancy.
“If you fellows will excuse me I’ll see what she says.”

He ran his eyes eagerly over the telegram, which was an unusually long
one, and before it was finished gave a whoop of delight.

“Sounds as though you had good news,” remarked Bobby, as he saw the
flushed face and sparkling eyes of his friend.

“I should say so!” cried Lee, waving the yellow slip above his head.
“Listen to this part of it, fellows: ‘I cannot tell you how grateful I
am to the brave boys who saved your life, and I want you to be sure to
bring them along with you for a visit, if they would care to come.’ How
about it fellows? Will you come along with me?”

“If we would care to come!” repeated Bobby. “You bet we’ll come!”

“Will a duck swim?” asked Fred, wild with delight at the vista opened up
by the invitation. “That is,” he added a little more soberly, “if the
folks at home will let us go.”

“Of course,” agreed Bobby. “But I haven’t much doubt about that. They
let us go West on a ranch, and I don’t see why they shouldn’t be just as
willing to have us go down South on a plantation. Come along, Fred, and
we’ll write to them now, so that the letters will get to them
to-morrow.”

“Why not telegraph?” asked Fred, who was bubbling over with excitement
and impatience.

“It would cost too much,” replied practical Bobby. “We’ll have to write
good long letters to explain everything and get them to let us go.”

“Put it strong,” counseled Lee. “I’ll be terribly disappointed if you
can’t go with me. And I know that my mother will, too. I want to show
you what life is on a real old-fashioned Southern plantation.”

“Don’t you worry,” replied Bobby. “If we can’t go, you can be sure that
it won’t be any fault of ours.”

They put all their powers of persuasion into the letters they wrote, and
were especially urgent that the answers should be sent at once. Then
they waited with feverish impatience for the replies.

These were not long in coming, for the second day after they wrote they
received the answers. They tore the letters open with quaking hearts,
for fear that they might prove unfavorable. And their delight was beyond
bounds when they found that they might go. There were long letters of
advice and injunctions to take the best care of themselves. And there
was also in each letter a substantial check to cover all expenses of the
trip. It was made plain to both that the ready agreement to let them go
was largely due to their behavior at the time of the fire, and was in
the nature of a reward.

To save a great deal of unnecessary traveling, it was arranged that the
boys should go directly from Rockledge School to New York. It was
thought best that they should go South by boat, instead of rail, and a
separate letter to Dr. Raymond requested that he should telegraph for
passage and stateroom in advance, and make what other arrangements might
be necessary for the trip.

As may be imagined, the next two days were busy ones for the three boys.
But at last all was ready, and with a big send-off from their chums,
they took the train for New York. The journey was a pleasant though
uneventful one, and they reached the city too late to do anything but go
directly to their stateroom on the boat.

The next morning, after a hearty breakfast, they took up their position
on the rail and watched the scene of busy life on the pier. There was
great noise and animation as the last freight was put into the hold and
belated passengers hurried down to the vessel. But at last order was
brought out of confusion and the bell rang the signal for “All Ashore.”




CHAPTER IX

OFF FOR THE SOUTH


Amid the jangling of engine room bells, the hiss of escaping steam, and
the hoarse cries of the deck hands, the boat moved majestically out into
the broad river, two small but very efficient tugboats pushed and hauled
at the heavy steamer, butting their stubby noses desperately against her
towering sides to counteract the effects of the strong tide. Long
strings of heavily loaded barges, towed by other snorting tugs, passed
up and down stream, while numerous ferryboats added their bit to the
heavy river traffic.

Leaning over the rail, the three friends were absorbed in watching this
busy scene. To them it seemed impossible that their own boat could get
safely started without colliding with any of the swarming smaller craft.
But after much maneuvering and tooting of whistles the big steamer
finally got her nose pointing downstream and headed slowly for the lower
bay.

“Gee!” exclaimed Bobby, drawing a deep breath, “I don’t understand yet
how we got out here without bumping something. I always thought it was
kind of hard to dodge eleven men on a football field without coming to
grief, but this makes it look easy.”

“Well, it always did seem to be easy enough for you, as far as that
goes,” remarked Fred. “But don’t forget we’ve got lots of chances yet to
hit something before we get to New Orleans. The man that steers this
overgrown canoe may go to sleep and land us on some nice hard rocks, or
we may hit a floating wreck, or—”

“Don’t stop,” urged Lee, as Fred hesitated a moment in search of some
other ghastly possibility, “you’ll have us really enjoying this trip
pretty soon. Somebody please tie a life preserver on me.”

“Well, perhaps you’ve never been on anything bigger than Monatook Lake,
and it’s only right that we experienced sailors should prepare you for
the worst. Of course, we may be lucky enough to get there all right, but
whatever happens, you can’t say we didn’t warn you.”

“This is a nice time to warn a fellow, isn’t it?” said Lee, with a grin,
“but I’m not going to ask the captain to stop the boat now and let me
walk ashore, so you may as well save all those cheerful predictions for
some other time.”

“He won’t scare worth two cents, will he?” laughed Bobby. “But maybe
when he gets his first dose of seasickness he won’t feel so cheerful.”

While the boys were talking, the ship had made steady progress, and now,
passing the Statue of Liberty, was well into the lower bay. Here the
tugs left it, and the great steamer vibrated from stem to stern as its
powerful engines took up the task appointed them. In quick succession
they passed the Ambrose and Sandy Hook lights, and began to feel the
roll and heave of the great blue ocean.

“Isn’t this great?” exclaimed Bobby. “Just fill your lungs with that
air, fellows.”

“The air is fine, all right,” said Fred. “But a little something to fill
my stomach wouldn’t be so awful bad, either.”

“That sounds like Pee Wee,” laughed Bobby. “But since you mention it, I
begin to feel hungry too. How about you, Lee?”

“You bet,” exclaimed the boy from the South, but his voice lacked the
tone of sincerity. Fred looked at him and grinned.

“What’s the matter, Lee?” he inquired. “You don’t mean to tell me you’re
feeling seasick, do you?”

“Of course I’m not seasick.”

“No, of course he isn’t seasick,” said Bobby, with a wink at Fred. “He
just doesn’t feel well, that’s all. People are often that way on salt
water. It must be something about the air, I guess.”

“Yes, that’s probably it,” agreed Fred, in a tone of deep sympathy.
“What you need, Lee, is a good bang up supper to set you up. How would a
nice pork chop or two hit you?”

“I don’t know how they’d hit me, but I do know that something is going
to hit you pretty quick, if you don’t stop talking about eats,” retorted
Lee. “You two go on down and eat your heads off. I’m going to stay up
here a while. I had a big lunch, anyway.”

“Well, you probably won’t have it much longer,” was Fred’s parting shot,
as he and Bobby started on a run for the dining room.

There were a number of empty places around the tables, but Bobby and
Fred enjoyed the meal hugely, with appetites no whit affected by the
uneasy motion of the ship. When they had finished, they went on deck
again, and found Lee coiled up in a steamer chair, and looking far from
happy.

“Guess I’ll have to admit that I’m seasick,” he said, with a somewhat
feeble grin, “but I’ve got lots of company, anyway. Most everybody I’ve
seen so far seems to be as bad or worse than I am.”

“Oh, well, it probably won’t last long,” said Bobby. “If you can get a
decent rest to-night, you’ll be all right in the morning.”

“I wouldn’t mind so much now if we did hit some of those rocks Fred was
talking about,” went on the boy from the South. “If I could get onto a
nice solid rock right now, I know I’d feel a whole lot better.”

But when the next morning came, the ocean was very calm, and Lee felt
almost himself again, so that he could aid his two friends in their
attacks on the excellent meals that were provided for them. They read,
played deck games, and altogether enjoyed themselves immensely. On the
second day of the trip, they noticed that the air was becoming
perceptibly warmer, and knew that they were getting into southern
waters. Schools of porpoises raced with the ship, and the boys never
tired watching them shooting through the water just under the ship’s
bows, and keeping up their speed without any apparent effort. Several
times they saw little flying fish, and once Fred was sure that he saw a
shark, but when the ship came up with the object that he had seen, it
proved to be nothing more ferocious than a half submerged log.

“Some sailor, you are,” said Lee, anxious to get even with Fred for some
of the remarks passed on his own seamanship. “I may not be as salty as
some people think they are, but still I can tell fishes from trees.”

“Well, I’m glad you know that much, anyway,” said Fred. “You certainly
are coming along fast. Some day, when you get over calling portholes
windows, you’ll be a real sailor.”

“I don’t think I ever want to be a sailor,” retorted Lee. “Good old
solid ground is good enough for me. Seems to me this old tub is jumping
around worse all the time.”

“It would be strange if it didn’t,” said Bobby. “The wind is getting
stronger every minute, and it’s working up some pretty big seas.”

Almost as he finished speaking a big wave dashed against the bow, and
showered them with spray.

“I’m going some place where it’s dry!” gasped the boy from the South,
and dashed for the companionway. Bobby and Fred lingered a while, but
were soon, forced to seek shelter in the lee of a deckhouse. They could
see members of the crew going about making every movable object fast,
and they guessed that they were in for a storm.




CHAPTER X

HALF A GALE


In an incredibly short space of time a heavy sea was running, and the
big ship, which at its dock had seemed so solid and immovable, was
tossed about almost wholly at the will of the angry waves. The bow would
rise up and up as it met a rushing hill of frothing green water, then,
as the giant wave rushed astern, the bow would dip, and the whole vessel
would seem to be coasting down into a frothing valley. Crests of the big
rollers, picked up and flung aboard by the howling wind, drenched any
hardy soul who ventured on deck. Sometimes the bow would not lift
quickly enough to an onrushing wave, and the water would crash down on
the forecastle with a tremendous impact and rush aft, sweeping any
movable object along with it.

The engines were throttled down to “half speed ahead,” which eased the
laboring of the vessel somewhat. Night fell early over a wild and
desolate waste of tossing waters, and even the three carefree boys were
sobered somewhat as they gazed through tightly bolted portholes at the
scene without. Lee was frankly seasick again, and even Bobby and Fred
had to admit that they “felt a little off.”

“But anyway, a storm like this isn’t likely to last long,” remarked
Bobby. “It came up in a hurry, and likely will go down just as fast.”

“It can’t go too fast to suit me,” groaned Lee, “‘A life on the rolling
deep’ may be all right for some people, but it rolls entirely too much
to be popular with me.”

“Not to mention how deep it is when the ship happens to sink,” said
Fred. “Whether we like it or not, we’ve got to admit that the man who
wrote that poetry knew what he was talking about.”

“Well, it’s time for supper, and I’m going to have some,” said Bobby.
“What do you say, fellows? Are you with me?”

“Guess you’ll have to count me out,” replied the boy from the South. “I
don’t think food and I will ever be friends again.”

Bobby and Fred managed to satisfy their appetites, although the dishes
persisted in dodging here and there in a most disconcerting manner, and
never seemed to be satisfied until they had settled themselves
comfortably in some one’s lap. Most of the passengers were keeping to
their staterooms, and taken altogether, the meal was not exactly a
cheerful affair. All three of the boys turned into their berths soon
afterward, and by dint of wedging themselves in with pillows and rolled
up articles of clothing, managed to get a fairly good night’s rest.

In the morning the wind appeared to have blown itself out, and as the
boys were dressing a weak and watery shaft of sunlight came streaming
through the porthole.

“That certainly looks good to me,” said Lee, who still looked rather
pale and unhappy. “If ever I get back on dry land, I’m going to stay
there a while.”

“It won’t feel bad for a change,” admitted Fred, “and with a little luck
we ought to make it in another day or two. We’d have gotten in without
this delay if it hadn’t been for the storm.”

After breakfast the boys went on deck, and found the ocean much
moderated, although still far from calm. After a little, they found
themselves near the door of the wireless room, and were soon chatting
with the operator on duty, who seemed to be a genial sort of fellow. He
and the boys were soon on the best of terms, and he explained the
workings of some of the simpler parts of the apparatus.

“I suppose a night like last night keeps you fellows pretty busy,
doesn’t it?” inquired Bobby.

“Yes, we have to be right on the job,” answered Quinn, the wireless
operator, “although last night wasn’t as bad as many I’ve been through.
We didn’t get an S. 0. S. call once.”

“From the way this ship was acting,” said Lee, ruefully, “I should think
it would be more likely that we would be sending a call for help instead
of receiving it.”

“Why, that wasn’t any more than a brisk breeze compared to some of the
blows I’ve been through,” said Quinn. “I remember one night on the North
Sea when it really did blow some. And as far as that goes, I’m willing
to bet that everybody else on that ship remembers it, too.”

“Was it so very bad, then?” inquired Bobby.

“Well, at that time I was doing duty on a converted yacht. We were
guarding a convoy, and one by one the other patrol boats made for port,
being unable to stay out any longer. But our captain refused to give up,
and finally we were the only boat left. Well, the wind kept blowing
harder and the seas rising, until the only wonder is that we weren’t
swamped altogether. Tremendous seas were following us, and at last one
monster came right aboard over the after rail. It slammed up against the
wireless shack, and before we knew what had happened, we and the shack
were carried bodily forward. We thought that our last minute had come,
but, luckily for us, the wireless house was slammed up against the
forward deck house. Then it went to pieces entirely. I made a grab for
the first thing my hand met, which happened to be a mast stay, and hung
on for all I knew how. It seemed to me that I was under water for an
age, but the big wave finally passed, and I crawled back to the deck
more dead than alive. Yes, that was a real rough night at sea, I’ll
admit.”

“How about the other wireless men?” queried Fred. “Did they come through
all right?”

“Well, by a miracle neither was swept overboard, but Pearsall, who had
just joined the ship a week or two before, broke his right arm. But he
considered himself lucky to be alive at all. We all did, for that
matter.”

“I should think you would be,” said Bobby, “and I suppose you had plenty
of other narrow escapes besides that one.”

“Plenty is right,” assented Quinn, “Why, I remember one winter afternoon
we got an S.O.S. from a munition ship that had caught fire. It was some
eighty miles to the west of us, and by the time we reached it, it was
right on the edge of dark. When we got there, the fire was at its
height. Most of their boats had been wrecked by the explosions of
ammunition as the fire reached it, and most of the crew were in the
water, some with life preservers, and others clinging to bits of
floating wreckage. It was like going through a barrage to get near them.
But we lowered our boats and finally got the last man safely aboard.
Then we steamed away at a rate the old hooker had never hit up before,
because we knew that when the fire reached the main hold there would be
a blowup that would pretty well clean everything that happened to be
around right off the water. And we weren’t a bit too soon either,
because we hadn’t covered more than half a mile when the blazing wreck
exploded with a slam that you could hear for fifty miles. As it was, we
were pretty well shaken up, but got off without any serious damage. But
it was pretty ticklish business while we were cruising round a cable’s
length away, picking the crew out of the water.”




CHAPTER XI

QUICK THINKING


“It must have taken some nerve to do it at all,” declared Lee
admiringly.

“Well, we knew they’d have done the same thing for us, if conditions had
been the other way round,” said Quinn. “If seamen didn’t help each other
out that way, the life would be even harder than it is.”

The boys were eager to hear more of the wireless man’s adventures, and
he, nothing loth, spun them more than one yarn of exciting episodes in
far corners of the earth, for he had been almost everywhere that ships
go. He was often interrupted by messages coming or going, but the boys
were fascinated by his stories, and could hardly tear themselves away
when dinner time came.

“That man has surely seen a lot,” remarked Bobby, while they were eating
an excellent meal, “and he knows how to tell about what he has seen,
too. I’m sorry we didn’t get acquainted with him earlier on the trip.”

“So am I,” agreed Lee, “but he’ll be on duty again this evening, and if
we get a chance we can look him up then.”

After lunch the three friends went on deck again. The sea by this time
was quite calm, and the boys strolled over to the port side and, leaning
on the rail, gazed idly out over the broad expanse of waters.

Suddenly the lads heard a shrill yell and a heavy splash alongside the
ship. One of the mess boys, a young negro, had been sitting carelessly
on the rail not far from where the boys were standing, when a sudden
lurch of the vessel had thrown him off his balance and he had made a
clean dive overboard.

For a second the boys were stunned by the unexpectedness of the
accident. Then Bobby whipped out his jacknife, cut loose a life
preserver that Fred was trying to loosen, and tossed it to the
struggling negro in the water. He judged his distance so accurately that
the buoy landed within a foot or two of the unfortunate darkey, who with
a desperate struggle caught hold of it.

Meanwhile, Fred and Lee were shouting “man overboard,” and the cry,
passed from mouth to mouth, reached the bridge. The engine room
telegraph rang “stop” and then “full speed astern.” Almost before the
big ship had come to a shuddering standstill, a boat had been lowered,
and in short time they had the gasping darkey boy aboard.

“Mah Lan’ Sakes!” he sputtered, “Ah don’t known who-all threw me dat
life p’server, but whoevah did saved mah life, Ah reckon, an I’se shuah
enough grateful.”

“Well, who was it threw you the preserver, and how in time did you come
to fall overboard and make us all this trouble?” inquired the mate, who
in his official capacity thought more of the time lost than of the
narrow escape from death the little darkey had had.

“Ah cain’t say, suh, jes huccome I to fall ovahboahd,” said the little
darkey. “Seems like Ah don’t nevah go to git me a little rest on dis
yeah ship but whut somethin’ happens. Ole ship jes gives a roll an’
heaves me clean ovah de side. Ah ain’t sure who give me dat life
p’server, but seems like they was three fellers standin’ by the rail,
and one of ’em done heave it out at me so it pretty near lands plumb
aroun’ mah neck.”

“Yes, but don’t you know who it was?” persisted the mate.

“Well, suh, seems to me it was one of them,” pointing to where Bobby,
Fred and Lee were standing, “but Ah couldn’t rightly say which one.”

“Was it one of you?” inquired the mate, turning to them.

“Well,” said Bobby, “I guess I’ll have to plead guilty. We heard him
splash overboard, and luckily there was a life preserver right near us,
so I threw it over to him.”

“It was rather lucky for young ’Rastus here,” commented the officer.
“Your name _is_ ’Rastus, isn’t it?” addressing the little darkey.

“Yessuh, dat’s part of it,” returned ’Rastus, with a grin that seemed to
show every tooth he possessed.

“What’s the rest of it?” inquired Bobby.

“Mah full name am ’Rastus Abimilech Belshazzar Johnson,” said the little
negro, evidently taking no small pride in this pretentious title.

“It’s a wonder we’re still afloat with a name like that aboard,”
exclaimed Mr. Parr, the mate. “But you’d better get down below, ’Rastus,
and get some dry clothes on.”

“Ah sho’ craves to git me some dry duds,” said ’Rastus. “An’ furdermo’,
’fore Ah goes Ah wants t’ thank, yuh, white boy, for heavin’ me dat cork
doughnut de way yuh did. Ah’d be confabulatin’ wid de little fishes down
at de bottom of de ocean if yuh hadn’t.”

“Oh, that’s all right,” said Bobby. “Next time you’d better be sure
you’ve got a good toe-hold before you decorate the rail.”

“Yessuh,” said ’Rastus, meekly, and departed for the lower regions of
the ship, leaving a wet trail on the white deck to mark his going.

The crowd of passengers that had assembled all wanted to shake hands
with Bobby at once, and were inclined to make a hero of him, but nothing
was further from that young gentleman’s mind, and as soon as possible
the three friends made their escape.

“Whew!” exclaimed Bobby, mopping his face, “you’d have thought I had
really done something, to listen to that crowd.”

“Well, I should say you have done something,” chuckled Lee. “You’ve
saved the longest name I ever heard in my life from getting drowned,
haven’t you?”

“Well, I guess that’s right enough,” laughed Bobby. “If I had known
’Rastus’ full name, I’d have slung him two life preservers, for fear one
wouldn’t be able to float it.”

“It is a mighty big name for such a little rascal,” said Fred, “but he
seemed grateful enough, Bobby. Maybe he’ll do you a good turn some day.
You never can tell.”




CHAPTER XII

UNDER SUNNY SKIES


It was early one morning that the ship warped into her berth at New
Orleans. The three friends were up bright and early, as they knew that
the steamer would dock shortly after dawn, and they did not want to miss
any of the excitement of the event. The big wharves were swarming with
negro stevedores, who joked and sang good-naturedly as they shifted huge
bales of cotton and boxes containing all manner of goods. Ships already
at their docks, either loading or unloading, sent up puffs of steam as
their cargo winches lifted huge nets full of barrels and boxes from the
seemingly inexhaustible holds, or consigned them to the same place. Mule
teams, horse teams, and big rumbling automobile trucks came and went,
getting in each other’s way and giving rise to short but forceful
arguments on the part of their drivers. In a word, all the varied bustle
and activity of a large and busy port was spread out for the boys to
view from their vantage point on the upper deck.

On the dock for which they were heading, a group of negro laborers was
waiting for the vessel to be made fast, and suddenly one of them started
a spirited “buck and wing” dance, the others singing, whistling, and
keeping time by clapping their hands. As the ship crept up to the dock
at a snail’s pace, many of the passengers crowded over to the starboard
side, where the boys were standing, and when the perspiring dancer
finally ended with a double shuffle and a bow, he was rewarded by a
shower of coins that rained down from the side of the ship which was now
being warped up to the dock and made fast.

“Some pep to that boy,” commented Fred. “You’d think they’d save their
energy for the work ahead of them.”

“Oh, a negro always has time and energy for a little fun, no matter how
hard he has to work,” replied Lee. “I’ve seen them dancing and cutting
up after a long day of cotton picking, and that’s about as hard work as
I know anything about.”

But there was no longer much time to spend on the deck, for now the
gangplank had been shot out and the passengers were beginning to stream
over it. This reminded the boys that they also had some strapping and
bundling to do, and they rushed to their stateroom and got to work. In a
few minutes all their packing had been done, and with warm good-bys to
the officers and many of the passengers, with whom they had become
favorites, they left the steamer.

“Seems like an old friend, already,” commented Bobby, as they walked
along the pier. “I don’t wonder that sailors fall in love with their
ships.”

“I suppose any place begins to seem like home after you’ve been there
for a while,” replied Fred. “But as for me give me terra cotta every
time.”

“Terra firma I suppose you mean,” laughed Lee.

“Let it go at that,” said Fred carelessly. “What’s one word more or less
between friends?”

A stalwart young negro was lying on a bale of cotton, basking like a cat
in the hot sun. The leader of a gang of roustabouts came hurrying along
looking for men.

“Got a job for you, Sam,” he said. “This steamer’s got to be unloaded in
a hurry. Come along now and I’ll put you in a gang.”

“Nothin’ doin, boss,” replied the negro with a yawn.

“Why, what’s the matter with you?” remonstrated his would be employer.
“It was only yesterday you were striking me for a job.”

“Ya-as,” replied the other, as he yawned and turned over for another
nap, “but dat war yesterday. Ah made two bits dis mornin’, an now Ah got
money in mah pocket. Go ’way, man, an’ let me sleep.”

With a gesture of disgust the other hurried away to look for more likely
material. The boys looked at each other and laughed.

“You see from that what we’re up against down here,” said Lee. “That’s
the way most of them are. As long as they have money enough for their
next meal, they’re perfectly satisfied. That man with a few cents in his
pockets is as happy as if he were a millionaire.”

They had about two hours before it was time for their train to start,
and as it was nearly noon, the first thing they did was to get a hearty
meal. Then they spent a little while roaming about the beautiful and
busy city, so different in many respects from what Bobby and Fred bad
been accustomed to in the North. They were especially interested in
viewing the spot where, behind cotton bales, Andrew Jackson and his men
had held off the flower of the British Army and won the most notable
victory of the war of 1812.

“It was great,” said Bobby, as he looked at his watch. “But hurry up,
fellows. We’ll have to get a hustle on, or we’ll miss the train.”

But Lee did not seem especially alarmed.

“I guess we’ll have time enough,” he said. “The train we’re going to
take doesn’t bother much about timetables. Still there’s no use in
taking chances.”

His conjecture was correct, for although they got to the station on
time, it was some time after the scheduled hour when the wheezy old
engine pulled out of the depot. And after it got started it rambled on
in a careless, happy-go-lucky way, as though it did not care much when
it got to its destination.

It was a mixed freight and passenger train. There were perhaps a dozen
freight cars, with one passenger coach attached to the end of the train.
It ran along a single track, which was little more than “two streaks of
rust and a right of way.”

Most of the stations at which the train stopped were small ones, but
there were one or two of respectable size. When the train came to a halt
at these, there were usually several negro women who walked along the
side of the passenger car, offering their wares to the travelers. Their
chief stock in trade was fried chicken, and this smelled so good that
the boys bought repeatedly, until Fred at last declared that he’d be
ashamed after that to look a chicken in the face.

“You want to save room, fellows,” remonstrated Lee. “My mother will have
a corking good supper waiting for us, and she’ll want to see you put it
away.”

“She needn’t worry a bit about that,” mumbled Fred, with his mouth full.
“We may have our faults, but we never go back on grub. Just put us at
the table and trust us to do the rest.”

Both Bobby and Fred were impressed by the leisurely way in which life
seemed to flow on in the various places through which they passed. Even
the soft haze in the atmosphere was suggestive of rest and quiet. In the
little towns, dogs lay in the dust in the middle of the road, not at all
disturbed by the fear of being run over. Merchants in their shirt
sleeves sat in front of their stores, with chairs tilted back,
exchanging gossip with farmers, who had come in with their produce and
were in no hurry to get back. Even the people coming toward the station
to take the train sauntered along with no fear of being left. Some of
them stopped to chat with the engineer, who leaned against the side of
his cab, chewing a straw and showing in every movement that time was the
last thing in the world that could bother him. Then after a while he
would get up in his seat, and the train would begin to move, with much
wheezing and creaking, as though disgruntled at being disturbed.

“Any mattresses on the train?” queried Fred, as he looked around him.
“Looks as if we’d spend the night here, at the rate we’re going.”

“Not quite so bad as that,” laughed Lee, “though I don’t wonder that you
think so. But we’ve only two more stations now before we come to
Raneleigh. That’s the nearest station to the plantation.”

“Do we have far to walk to get to your place?” asked Fred, as he viewed
their collection of suit cases rather apprehensively.

“Oh, we’re about six miles from the station,” rejoined Lee carelessly.

“Six miles,” gasped Fred. “Scubbity-yow! And on a hot day like this. I
can see where I melt into a grease spot.”

“Hold your horses,” said Lee. “You won’t have to walk a step. One of the
men will be at the station with a buckboard and a pair of mules. Ever
ridden in a buckboard?”

“Yes,” replied Fred, “many a time out on the ranch. But I’ve never
ridden behind mules. Do they step fast?”

“Not that you could notice,” grinned Lee. “Their strong point is in
standing fast. Once in a while we have to build a fire under one of them
to get it to budge. You’ll know a good sight more about mules than you
do now when you go back to school.”

“School!” groaned Fred. “What’s the use of spoiling a perfectly good day
by talking about school. We’ll have to go back soon enough. Let’s forget
it while we’re here.”

In less than an hour they were approaching Raneleigh, and Bobby and Fred
craned their necks in order to get a glimpse of the town. All they saw
however as the train lumbered up to the platform was a general store,
that stood opposite the station, and three or four dwellings located
irregularly along a dusty street.

“As a matter of fact it isn’t a town at all, only a station,” explained
Lee, as he led the way out on the platform. “Ah, there’s Jim!” he
exclaimed, as a rather decrepit old negro came hobbling up to meet them.
“How are you, Jim?”

“Tol’able, jess tol’able, Marse Lee,” replied Jim. “Ah sho’ am glad to
see you-all.”

“These are my friends, Bobby Blake and Fred Martin,” said Lee, as he
piled the bags in the back of the buckboard. “They’ve come down to stay
awhile with me on the plantation.”

The old man took off his tattered hat and made a sweeping bow.

“I’se proud to meet de young gem’lum,” he said. “Missus tole me dey waz
a comin’. We sho’ will try ter give dem er mighty good time.”




CHAPTER XIII

FLYING HEELS


The six dusty miles from the station to the plantation would have been
tedious ordinarily, but the boys were too full of high spirits to let
little things like dust and heat affect them. The buckboard creaked and
jounced along, and the mules seemed to have even more than their share
of the general disinclination to hurry. The old negro gave the boys news
of all that had been going on at the plantation since Lee’s last time
home.

“Ah’m afraid dat Marse Jim Boolus am fixin’ to make you an’ you ma all
de trouble dat he kin,” said the old darkey, shaking his head. “Seems
like he’s gettin’ meaner and more no-account every year dat passes over
his haid.”

“The old rascal!” exclaimed Lee, with flashing eyes. “I’ll make him
sorry some day for all the trouble he’s caused my family.”

“Dere’s lots of odder folks feels de same way,” said Jim. “Ev’body in de
parish hates him like pisen, but de more people hates him de mo’ he
seems to like it.”

On the boat Lee had said quite a little of this Jim Boolus to Bobby and
Fred. He was a mean old skinflint, who had thriven on the misery of
others, and by many a shady deal had brought ruin on honest people.
While everybody knew him to be unscrupulous and dishonest, he was so
cunning and crafty that he always managed to keep out of the grip of the
law. At present he was trying to prove his ownership to a large part of
Mrs. Cartier’s estate, and she was in serious danger of losing it.

The boys were still discussing ways and means to frustrate the wily
schemings of the crafty old land shark when the buckboard turned off the
dusty road, pursued its leisurely way up a long graveled avenue shaded
by stately trees, and drew up before a wide-flung old mansion flanked by
wide verandas. Before it had stopped Lee jumped out and ran to meet a
pleasant faced lady who was descending the steps. After their first
affectionate greeting Lee introduced Bobby and Fred to her.

“These are my two friends, Mother, Bobby Blake and Fred Martin,” he
said. “I guess you’ve heard so much about them in my letters to you that
you hardly need an introduction.”

“Indeed yes,” she smiled. “And I hope that Lee’s mother will be just as
good friends with you as Lee is.”

Mrs. Cartier was so gracious and hospitable that the boys were quickly
at their ease and felt as though they had known her a long time.

Lee showed them their room, a beautiful large one with big, comfortable
looking beds and dark, cool curtains at the windows.

“When you fellows have gotten some of the dust off you, come on down and
I’ll show you around,” said Lee, as he left them.

“Well,” remarked Bobby, when he and Fred were alone, “it looks to me as
though we had come to a pretty fine place to spend our vacation. Mrs.
Cartier certainly has a way of making a fellow feel welcome.”

“She certainly has,” returned Fred, “I’ve often heard about Southern
hospitality, and now I know what it’s like.”

“I wish we could do something to fix that skinflint old neighbor of
theirs,” continued Fred, after a pause.

“Well, there’s no telling; maybe we can,” said Bobby.

Shortly afterwards Bobby and Fred went downstairs, and found Lee waiting
for them on the veranda.

“I thought you fellows must have been overcome by the excitement of that
buckboard ride and dropped asleep,” grinned Lee. “You never used to take
as long as that to get spruced up back at school, especially when you
happened to get up late and thought you’d be late for breakfast.”

“When in Rome do as the Romans do,” quoted Bobby. “When you hit a place
where everybody seems to take things easy, why be in a hurry?”

“Hurray!” shouted Lee. “I can see that you’ve got the making of a
Southern gentleman in you, all right. ‘Never be in a hurry’ is one of
the first things you learn around here.”

“That’s all right, sometimes,” put in Fred. “But when you’re toting a
football down a field with the goal posts looking to be about ten miles
away, and eleven fellows doing their best to grab you around the knees
and sit on your chest, hurrying is the one thing you’re most anxious to
do.”

“Right!” laughed Bobby. “Not to mention the way the coach feels about
it.”

“Well, I’ll have to admit that a coach _doesn’t_ believe in taking
things easy,” said Lee, “but then, I guess probably most coaches don’t
come from the South.”

The others agreed that this was very probable, and then set out on a
tour of the plantation. This covered several hundred acres, and in the
days “before the war” had evidently been a profitable estate. Besides
the big, rambling old mansion, there were numerous barns and
outbuildings, including what had formerly been quarters for numerous
slaves. Most of these buildings were unused and out of repair now, and,
except in the busy planting and picking seasons, there were only five
old servants on the place. Aunt Dinah, the cook, deserved first place,
because she was past master (or mistress) of the art of cookery, and
could turn out dishes that had spread her fame for miles in a country of
good cooks.

Uncle Josh, a faithful old darkey, whose wrinkled face was framed in
snow white hair, acted as “handy man” and did odd jobs where-ever they
were needed, although forever complaining about a mysterious ailment
that he invariably referred to as “de misery in mah back.” There were
three other more or less lazy but entirely good-natured darkeys, who did
whatever else was necessary in a carefree but somewhat inefficient
manner.

“They mean well enough, and they think the world of mother and me, but
unless somebody’s watching them they’ll never hurt themselves with
overwork,” explained Lee. “When I’m through school and college and can
take charge of this place, I’m going to get more action or know the
reason why.”

He took Bobby and Fred through the big barn, where now only a few horses
and mules were stabled, although there was room for a hundred. As they
passed one stall, there was a flash of vicious hoofs, which narrowly
missed Fred, who was the nearest.

“Wow!” he exclaimed, as he jumped back, “I pretty near stopped something
that time. That beast must have a grudge against me, I guess.”

“Oh, it isn’t against you, in particular,” said Lee. “He’s got a grudge
against the whole human race. That’s old Baldy, and I really believe
he’s the meanest mule that ever lived, and if you know anything about
mules, you’ll realize that that’s saying something. I should have warned
you about him, but I didn’t think about it.”

“Oh, well it doesn’t matter as long as he missed me,” said Fred. “You
can bet I’ll watch out for him in the future.”

“It’s a circus to see the darkeys when they have to harness him,” said
Lee. “They’re all afraid of him, and yet they respect him, too, because
he’s as strong as two ordinary mules, and when he feels like it can do a
hard day’s work. I think they’re going to hitch him up in a little
while, and if you like we’ll hang around and watch the fun.”

You can be sure Bobby and Fred had no objection to this, and sure
enough, in a little while two husky colored men appeared and took down
the necessary harness from pegs on the wall.

“Are you going to hitch up old Baldy?” asked Lee.

“We aim to, Marse Lee,” said one, whose first name was Mose, and whose
last name nobody ever seemed to have heard. “But dat mule doan always
calculate to do jest whut we wants him to.”

“’Deed he don’t,” agreed the other. “Las’ time Ah come near him, he done
took de seat outen my pants, an Ah shore thought Ah was headed straight
for Kingdom Come ’fore Ah could get away from him.”

The negro who had spoken first approached the stall cautiously, but the
mule heard him coming, and, with ears laid viciously back, lashed out at
him with flying heels. But the negro was on his guard, and jumped to one
side barely in time to save himself.

“Reckon ole Baldy ain’t feelin’ friendly toward me to-day no-how,” said
Mose, with a somewhat nervous grin. “Reckon Ah’d better untie him from
de stall nex’ door.”

He went cautiously into the stall adjoining that of old Baldy, and
reached over gingerly to untie his halter. But the mule was not to be
caught napping, and he made a wicked nip at the negro’s hand. He just
missed the hand, but caught the ragged coat sleeve in his white teeth,
and tore a long strip from it.

“Mah goodness!” exclaimed the negro, “Ah’d rather monkey wid a load o’
dynamite dan wid dat mule.”

“Try it again, an’ I’ll take his mind offen you,” said the other negro.

He picked up a long rake from a corner, and with this began prodding at
the rear end of the mule, while his companion again cautiously
approached the halter. This ruse was successful, for the animal was so
occupied with trying to kick the rake handle into bits, that he hardly
noticed anything else, and Mose had no trouble this time in untying the
halter.

“Watch out dare, niggah!” he admonished his assistant. “Everybody git
out of de way an’ let this critter sail.”

The boys scattered to places of safety, as the mule, finding his head
free, backed out of the stall and made for the open door. There was a
fenced-in yard surrounding the stable, and he galloped around this,
kicking up his heels and hee-hawing. The two negroes dashed pellmell
after him, followed by the laughing boys.

“Now the real fun will begin,” said Lee. “Just watch them try to harness
him up.”




CHAPTER XIV

BALDY GIVES IN


The two darkeys had their blood up now, and were resolved to get that
mule harnessed or die in the attempt. Mose had the big padded collar,
and his companion had the bridle. They crept up warily toward old Baldy,
who, with the wisdom born of many such encounters, refused to be
cornered, dashing out with surprising speed every time things began to
look bad for him. But at last the negroes maneuvered him into a corner
from which there was no escape, and then, with a sudden rush, threw
themselves at him. Mose caught him round the neck, while the other
leaped to his back and clung there with hands and knees. They were wise
in the ways of mules, also, and enjoyed a tussle like this, although
their enjoyment was tempered by a wholesome respect for the kicking and
biting ability of the animal.

But before they could get the collar over his head, Baldy rushed across
the yard kicking and rearing, dragging the two negroes after him as
though their weight amounted to nothing at all. The negroes held on
gamely, though, and at last the mule, despairing of shaking them off,
suddenly threw himself down and rolled completely over. The darkeys
however had anticipated some such action, and let go just in the nick of
time to save themselves.

“That was a narrow escape,” said Bobby, somewhat anxiously. “Aren’t you
afraid they’ll get hurt, Lee?”

“I don’t think so,” he answered. “It takes a lot to hurt them, and
they’ve done this many times before. Just leave it to them.”

The mule struggled to his feet with his tormentors clinging to him.
Suddenly he gave a lightning-like whirl that shook Mose loose in spite
of all he could do, and before he could recover himself Baldy had lashed
out and caught the darkey fair and square. Fortunately for Mose, he
still had hold of the big padded collar, and the mule’s hoofs landed on
this with a smart whack. Mose was propelled along several feet, and
then, losing his balance, rolled over and over in the dust.

The three boys thought he was badly hurt, and rushed out to his rescue,
but before they had gone ten feet the negro had bounded to his feet,
just in time to avoid the mule, who was rushing toward him with mouth
wide open and wicked teeth gleaming. Temporarily the fight had been
knocked out of Mose, and he fled ignominiously for the fence, with old
Baldy in hot pursuit. With the other negro clinging desperately around
his neck, it was a ludicrous spectacle, and as Mose cleared the fence in
a wild scramble with the mule not ten feet behind him, the boys shouted
with laughter.

“That was a close shave!” gasped Fred at last. “Old Baldy is out after
dark meat to-day, I can see that.”

“Looks to me as though the mule had won the decision,” said Bobby. “How
about it, Lee?”

“Oh, they can’t give up now,” said Lee. “That mule would never be worth
a cent to us again if they let him win. But I’m going to see if a little
strategy won’t help them out.”

“You two wait a minute,” he called to the negroes, who were by now both
on the safe side of the fence, mopping at their streaming faces, and
started on a run for the barn. He soon emerged, carrying a heaped
measure with oats. Baldy was at the other end of the yard, watching
proceedings with deep suspicion. Lee emptied the oats on the ground
within two feet of the fence, and then rejoined his friends.

“You two wait until he starts to eat the oats, and then jump on him,” he
shouted to the negroes.

“Yessah,” responded Mose, with a grin. “’Clare to goodness, Ah’d clean
forgot dat you can ketch more flies wid honey dan yuh can wid vinegar.”

When Baldy saw the tempting heap of oats, it occurred to him that a
little something to eat wouldn’t be so bad, and he sidled over to them
and began eating. The darkeys secured the harness that they had been
forced to drop, and crept cautiously up on the mule, who was now
thinking only of how delicious oats could taste to a hungry mule. Mose
mounted the fence just back of old Baldy, while his companion crept
close to the mule’s other side. Suddenly Mose leaped squarely on his
back. With a frightened snort the mule jerked his head up, and at that
second Mose slipped the heavy collar over his neck. At the same moment
the other negro slipped the bridle over his head, forced the bit into
his mouth, and before he could flick his tail old Baldy found himself
arrayed in harness. The suddenness of the attack seemed to take all the
spirit out of the mule, and when he found himself actually harnessed he
submitted with only a few feeble kicks and bucks as protest against the
trick that had been played on him. He was soon hitched to the wagon, and
it rattled out of the yard with the two colored men on the seat laughing
and throwing insults at the subdued Baldy.

“That was some inspiration you had, Lee,” said Bobby. “I thought at one
time you’d have to call in the police if you wanted to get him
harnessed.”

“Oh, that’s an old trick,” said the Southern lad. “I’ve seen those same
darkeys do the same thing, but I guess this time they were so rattled
they didn’t think of it.”

“Well, I’m glad they didn’t do that at the beginning,” said Fred. “We’d
have missed a lot of fun if they had. I don’t think I’ll ever forget how
funny Mose looked streaking for the fence with that mule snapping his
teeth right behind him.”

“Yes, old Mose was a scared darkey, all right,” laughed Lee. “But now, I
don’t know about you fellows, but I for one am beginning to feel as
though I could appreciate some of Aunt Dinah’s cooking.”

“Well, suppose you lead us to it and let us show you how we feel about
it,” said Bobby. “As they often remind us in school, it’s deeds that
count, not words.”

“All right, then, just follow me and I’ll give you a chance to
demonstrate,” said Lee.

“Lead on,” said Fred, “and remember that we’re with you to the last
doughnut.”

“Oh, I know I can count on you,” returned Lee, as he and his friends
headed for the house. “But I know you can’t eat too much to suit Aunt
Dinah. The more you pack away, the more she thinks you like her cooking.
She is sure an artist when, it comes to performing on a cook stove.”

Arrived at the house, the boys found that Lee’s praise of Aunt Dinah’s
abilities had been well founded. Creamy, luscious biscuits, tender,
juicy fried chicken, with various tempting side dishes, were topped off
by an apple pie that Fred later referred to as “a dream,” and when they
finally adjourned to the spacious veranda they felt at peace with all
the world.

“Why, I feel so good I think I could even forgive Ap Plunkit for soaking
me with a baseball, the way he did last season,” said Fred.

“Well, Lee, if you ever had a grudge against Fred, now’s the time to hit
him,” said Bobby. “He wouldn’t even try to hit you back. He’d just shake
hands with you and forgive you.”

“I’d advise _you_ to try it,” said Lee, scornfully. “I know it always
takes an awful lot to make Fred mad, but still, I’m not going to chance
it.”

Mrs. Cartier, who was an interested listener, laughed. “That’s all that
boys seem to think of—eating and fighting,” she said. “Sometimes I
wonder how they ever get time to study.”

“Well,” said Bobby, “at school, especially, there always seems to be
some one who’ll bully everybody else, if he gets the chance, and so once
in a while we just have to show him that he can’t.”

“I suppose so,” she said. “The world always seems to have plenty of
trouble makers.”




CHAPTER XV

THE LAND SHARK


“Like Jim Boolus, for instance,” said Lee, his face clouding over. “What
is he up to now, Mother? Has he been trying to make trouble again?”

“He’s always trying to do that,” responded Mrs. Cartier, “and the worst
of it is, he so often succeeds.”

“Lee was telling us something about him,” said Bobby, “but I’m afraid
Fred and I don’t understand it very well, anyway.”

“Well,” said Mrs. Cartier, “our family has owned this plantation over a
hundred years, and until recently there was no question of our
ownership. But now, this Jim Boolus has laid claim to all the southern
half of our land, and while we and all our neighbors are morally certain
that his claim is dishonest, we find it a difficult thing to prove
according to law.”

“You see,” explained Lee, “when my great-grandfather bought this land it
was wild country, nothing but woods and swamps. He had it surveyed at
that time, and the four corners were marked off by four large stones.
When he bought the land, the southern end included a small part of the
big swamp, or Shadow Swamp, as it is known in this neighborhood. The
first Cartier, by means of hard work and at great expense, managed to
drain the part of the swamp included in his land, and it was on this
reclaimed land that the boundary stones were set up. For many years this
was one of the most fertile parts of the plantation, but then came the
war, and while that was going on the swamp crept up on the drained land
and swallowed it up, and with it the boundary stones that would, I
believe, prove our ownership.”

“But couldn’t the swamp be drained again?” asked Bobby. “If it were,
maybe the stones could be located again.”

“No,” said Lee, shaking his head doubtfully, “the chances are the stones
would have sunk below the surface of the ground by now, and anyway, it
would cost so much to drain it now that it would be out of the question
for us.”

“Is it such a big swamp, Lee?” inquired Fred.

“Oh, yes, it covers a good many miles. For the most part, nobody can get
through it at all, but there are one or two secret paths through it, and
I’ve been told that there are small bits of dry ground, too, if you know
where to find them. Some of the negroes around here know their way
through, and before the war runaway slaves used to hide there sometimes.
But any one who didn’t know the place would probably get lost and
swallowed up before he’d fairly got into it.”

“Sounds inviting, all right,” said Fred. “The more I hear about it, the
more I think it would be a good adventure to explore it.”

“You wouldn’t say that if you were as familiar with the place as we
people around here are,” said Mrs. Cartier, shaking her head. “Two sons
of a neighbor of ours were lost in it two or three years ago, not to
mention many others.”

Fred said no more at that time, but Bobby, who was nearest him thought
he heard him mutter something about “better luck next time.”

“But you were telling us something about a river that ran near the
plantation, weren’t you?” asked Bobby. “Whereabouts does that lie?”

“Well, it’s that river that really makes the swamp, in a way,” explained
Lee. “The country is rather low hereabouts, anyway, and when the river
hits the swamp it spreads out. You can follow its course right through,
though, and come out on the other side, if you don’t happen to get
pocketed in some blind bayou or lagoon.”

“Well, perhaps we could do some exploring by water, anyway,” suggested
Fred, hopefully.

“That is possible,” said Mrs. Cartier. “We have a small motor boat, and
any time you boys care to use it you may have it.”

“That will be fine!” exclaimed Bobby and Fred.

“We can go to-morrow afternoon, if you want,” said Lee. “I want to drive
to the village in the morning to get some things for mother, but if we
start early, we can get back in time to get the boat and go for a short
trip, anyway.”

Both Bobby and Fred were enthusiastic at the prospect, and for the rest
of the evening little else was talked of except plans for the coming
outing.

It was arranged that Bobby should accompany Lee on his trip to the
village, while Fred was to stay at home and look over the motor boat to
make sure that everything was in readiness to start when his two friends
got back. After making these arrangements, the boys said good-night to
Mrs. Cartier, and went to their rooms. They were all three excited at
the prospect of fun and adventure the next day.




CHAPTER XVI

JIM BOOLUS APPEARS


The three boys slept the deep and dreamless sleep of healthy boyhood,
and only woke when the sun was streaming in at their windows.

“What do you know about that?” said Fred, as he leaped out of bed and
started dressing in a wild attempt to overcome lost time. “We were going
to get an early start, and here it is nearly eight o’clock and we’re
just getting up.”

“Well, Lee said they never had breakfast before eight or half past,”
said Bobby, “so probably if we hurry we’ll be all right anyway. There’s
no use our rushing ourselves when nobody else does.”

“Yes, but that motor boat may need some fixing,” said Fred. “Motor boats
almost always do, as far as I can see.”

“Mrs. Cartier said that this boat was in perfect order,” Bobby reminded
him.

“There never was a motor boat that was in perfect order,” retorted Fred.
“At least, that’s what I heard my uncle tell my father, and he’s had so
many of them he ought to know by this time.”

“You don’t seem very hopeful about it,” said Bobby, laughing. “But here
I am dressed before you, even though you started first. That proves that
it doesn’t pay to get excited.”

“Well, I never did anything yet that did pay,” declared Fred. “The only
kind of things I seem to know how to do are the things that _cost_
money.”

“Aw, come on and have breakfast,” said Bobby, “maybe you’ll feel better
then.”

“Well, I’m willing to find out, anyway,” grinned Fred, and the two
sallied forth in the direction of the breakfast room. At the head of the
stairs they almost bumped into Lee as he came tearing around a corner.

“Confound it!” exclaimed the Southern lad, “I’ve pretty near killed
myself hurrying, thinking that you fellows would be all through
breakfast, by this time, and here you are just going down.”

“Yes,” said Bobby, slyly, “if we stay here much longer, we’ll be just as
lazy as the other people in this part of the world.”

“I don’t see how either one of you could get any lazier than you always
have been,” laughed Lee.

“I’m not too lazy to beat you downstairs, anyway,” said Bobby, and as
Lee instantly accepted the challenge by starting downstairs three steps
at a time, they made a tremendous racket which brought Mrs. Cartier to
the door of the breakfast room in alarm.

“Good gracious!” she exclaimed, as the boys jumped the last six steps
together and landed in a heap at the bottom. “Did you fall? Is any one
hurt?”

“I guess nobody’s hurt,” gasped Lee, as the laughing boys picked
themselves up. “We were just trying to see who could get down first. You
saw the finish, Mother—tell us who won. We’ll leave it to you.”

“I should say it was a tie,” she laughed, greatly relieved. “It looked
to me as though you all landed in a heap at the same time. Bobby seemed
to be on top, so probably he won.”

“Well, we’ll let it go at that,” grinned her son. “I wonder what Aunt
Dinah has fixed us up for breakfast.”

“Perhaps you’d better go in and see,” answered his mother, and the boys
were not slow in following her advice. The old Southern mammy had
provided in her usual bounteous manner, but the boys were in too much of
a hurry to properly appreciate all the good things spread out before
them. Even Lee hurried, with the result that in a very short time they
found themselves out at the barn, where Mose had a horse already
harnessed.

“We’ll make the best time we can, and get back early,” promised Lee, as
he and Bobby climbed into the buggy.

“All right, I’ll be waiting for you,” responded Fred, and his two
friends dashed out of the yard, upsetting the dignity of numerous hens,
who flapped wildly to right and left, squawking their protests.

“Now, if you’ll show me the motor boat, Mose,” said Fred. “I’ll look it
over and make sure everything is all right.”

“Yassuh,” said the darkey, “it’s a goodish piece from here, but Ah
reckons us kin walk it in fifteen minutes.”

“Guess I can stand it if you can,” said Fred, and they started out.

Meantime, Lee and Bobby had reached the dusty highroad and were going
along at a spanking pace. Their horse had been in pasture several days
with nothing to do, and seemed to enjoy a good run with nothing but the
light buggy behind him.

“If we can keep this up, it won’t take us long,” observed Bobby.

“Yes, but we can’t,” said Lee. “There is some pretty sandy going before
we hit town, and that will slow old Jerry down.”

They soon reached a bad stretch of sandy road, which was so narrow that
there was no more than room enough for one carriage. When two met, each
had to pull partly off the road in order to pass, and this happened once
or twice, the drivers of the other outfits recognizing Lee and greeting
him pleasantly.

After passing the last rig, they had gone perhaps half a mile, old Jerry
stopping at frequent intervals to rest, when they saw another buggy
approaching them. As it drew nearer, Lee gave an exclamation.

“What’s the matter?” inquired Bobby. “Anything wrong?”

Lee’s face was flushed as he pointed to the oncoming buggy.

“There comes the meanest man in the world,” he exclaimed, his voice
shaking. “That’s Jim Boolus, the fellow that’s trying to steal our
land.”

The buggies were quite close together by this time, and the man in the
other one evidently overheard Lee’s last words. He was a lean, dyspeptic
looking old fellow, and the look of hatred and rage that his face now
wore did little to improve his appearance.

“You’d better be keerful, young feller,” he snarled, as the buggies came
close, “there’s a law in the land for them as uses hard words.”

“Yes, and there’s a law for people who try to steal what doesn’t belong
to them, too,” retorted Lee. “Pull out there and let us pass, please.”




CHAPTER XVII

THE RUNAWAY HORSE


“Pull out yourselves, consarn ye!” shouted Jim Boolus, his face purple
with rage. Then, seeing that Lee made no move, he suddenly snatched his
whip from its socket, and made a savage cut at Lee’s horse.

Old Jerry reared and would have bolted forward, had not Lee held him
quiet with all the strength he possessed. Bobby was infuriated by
Boolus’ cruel action, and in a second he was out of the buggy and was
leading the old miser’s horse off the road. With a yelp of rage Boolus
made a cut at him with his whip, but Bobby dodged just in time, and the
stinging lash landed on Boolus’ horse instead. The unfortunate animal,
already greatly excited by the altercation, gave a leap to one side,
cramping the front wheels against the buggy. The light rig careened
over, and then, as the horse started forward at top speed, it turned
over completely, rolling Boolus out into the deep sand at the roadside.
The frightened horse dragged the overturned buggy a short distance, but
then his harness broke, and he streaked down the road in a cloud of dust
and sand, leaving the wrecked buggy lying on its side.

Jim Boolus staggered to his feet and gazed after his fast disappearing
horse for an instant, then turned toward the boys. For a moment they
were bewildered at the sudden development of events, but when they saw
that Boolus was unhurt the comic side of it struck them both at the same
time, and they shouted with laughter. But their discomfitted enemy
failed to see any humor in the situation.

“I’ll sue ye for this, see if I don’t!” he yelled, dancing about in his
rage. “You’ll pay for that buggy, or I’ll know the reason why.”

“I don’t see where I come in,” said Lee. “You hit your own horse and he
ran away. Both of us saw you do it, and we could swear to it in court.
You don’t suppose any one around here would believe you if you tried to
tell them anything else, do you?”

Boolus glared at the boys, but the truth of what Lee said was so evident
that he could think of no suitable retort.

“And now,” continued Lee, “I and my friend here wish you a very pleasant
walk to wherever it is you were going,” and with these words he spoke to
Jerry, who started off. As they looked back the boys could see the old
skinflint still standing in the road shaking his fists at them, until a
sudden turn hid him from view.

“Well, that’s one time Mr. Jim Boolus got the worst of it,” said Bobby,
wiping the tears of mirth from his eyes. “The look on his face as he
picked himself out of that sand heap was worth going a long way to see.”

“It surely was,” agreed Lee, “but I’m rather sorry it happened just the
same. He’ll hate us worse than ever now, and he won’t stop at anything
to get even.”

“Well, don’t worry about it,” advised Bobby. “Anyway, he got the worst
of it this time, so maybe he will again.”

“Well, I hope so,” said Lee. “He always does the meanest thing he can
think of, anyway, so probably this won’t make much difference.”

They reached the village without further adventure. Lee carried out the
commission his mother had given him, and they started back immediately.

“We’re late as it is, on account of that ruction with Boolus,” said Lee.
“Fred will think we’ve gotten lost, sure.”

“I guess when we tell him what delayed us he won’t mind very much,” said
Bobby, with a twinkle in his eye. “He’ll never get over being sorry that
he wasn’t with us when it happened.”

They passed the wrecked buggy lying in the same position, but there was
no sign of its owner, and the boys concluded that some one had probably
come along and given him a lift. When they reached the plantation, they
found Fred waiting for them at the gate.

“I thought you would be here an hour ago,” he exclaimed impatiently.
“What’s been keeping you?”

“Jump in, and we’ll tell you while we’re going up to the house,” said
Lee, and then he and Bobby told him all about their encounter with
Boolus. As Bobby had predicted, Fred was greatly disappointed at having
missed the adventure.

“But I’ll have to admit you made good use of that extra hour,” he
conceded. “I was getting mad as a hornet when you didn’t show up on
time, because I’ve got the motor boat all provisioned and ready to
start. And it’s a peach of a boat, too,” he added.

“Well, that’s the kind we want,” said Bobby. “I’m all ready to start at
a moment’s notice.”

“We’ll have to go to the house first,” said Lee, “but that won’t take us
long.”

To save time, Lee told Mose to go to the boat landing and wait for them
there, so that he could take the horse and buggy back when they got
there.

“We Southerners just hate to walk when we can ride,” he explained.
“Besides, it will save time.”

Mrs. Cartier insisted that they have lunch, although if left to
themselves the boys would have preferred to start their trip and eat in
the boat. They told her about the encounter with Jim Boolus, and when
they saw how anxious she became they felt sorry for the first time that
it had happened. However, there was nothing to be done about it, and
after a hasty meal they said good-by to her, jumped into the buggy, and
in a short time were at the tiny boathouse.

This was situated in a small creek or inlet, and was built right over
the water, so that one had only to open the doors and guide the boat
out. The boat itself was a staunch little twenty-foot craft with a
dependable two-cylinder motor to drive it, and Fred had seen to it that
Mose should have the brass work shining. The negro had been far from
enthusiastic over this job.

“Whut’s de use to scrub up all dat brass,” he had argued, “when it won’t
be no time at all before de mist from de ribber has it green ag’in.
Seems t’me it would be more sensible like to spend de time restin’ out
in de nice warm sun.”

“You might as well say it’s no use eating because you’ll only get hungry
again,” Fred had told him. “I’ll bet you don’t believe that though, do
you?”

“Nossuh,” said Mose, with a broad grin, “dat’s a diff’rent breed o’
cats, suh.”

Apparently convinced by Fred’s argument, he had fallen to with a will,
with such good results that the motor boat now looked spick and span
enough to go in some water festival.

“It sho looks nifty,” admitted Mose, “but mah elbow aches yet when Ah
reflects how hard Ah had to dig befo’ Ah got it dat way.”

“Never mind,” said Lee, as he gave the flywheel a twist that set the
motor to chugging in a business-like manner. “When we come back we’ll
bring you some swamp chickens for supper, Mose.”

“Whut’s dem swamp chickums?” inquired the negro. “Cain’t seem to
rec’lect no sech fowl no-how.”

“Oh, certainly,” said Lee, with every appearance of conviction. “They
have black combs, red tail feathers, and blue eyes. You must have seen
one, haven’t you?”

“Nossuh, an’ whut’s more, Ah don’ believe dey never was no sech a kind
of a chickum,” said Mose.

“All right, then, just you wait till we bring you one back,” said Lee,
and guided the boat out into the sluggish river, leaving Mose scratching
his woolly head on the bank.

The river was perhaps a hundred feet wide at this point, and flowed so
slowly that it was hard to believe that there was any current at all.
The banks were covered with trees that grew right down to the water’s
edge at this point, but as the little craft chugged its way upstream,
the trees gave way to high, rank grass, with here and there a lofty
cypress tree shooting up out of the rank vegetation.

“We’re on the edge of the swamp country now,” explained Lee. “In another
hour we’ll be right in the heart of it.”




CHAPTER XVIII

A SCOUNDREL’S TRICK


“What’s the chance of catching some fish?” inquired Bobby. “There’s
nothing better than fresh caught fish grilled over a wood fire.”

“There are plenty of fish if you have the luck to catch them,” said Lee.
“They generally eat the bait off my hook, and then go away laughing at
me.”

“Huh, I never saw a fish laugh, myself,” said Fred; “it must be very
interesting.”

“Oh, it is,” Lee gravely assured him. “We’ll just land at a good place I
know of, and maybe you can have a demonstration.”

They chugged on a little further, and then Lee gave the wheel a twist
and headed for a high green bank that rose above the general level of
the flat swamp country. When about two hundred feet away he shut off the
motor, and the boat glided gently on with its momentum and grounded
easily on the muddy bank.

“Here we are,” said the Southern youth. “Get out your fishing lines, and
we’ll see what we can do.”

It did not take the boys long to rig up their tackle, and then Lee
jumped ashore, followed by Bobby and Fred. Together they pulled the bow
of the boat up onto the bank, and then cast their bait.

“Now to hear the laughing fish,” said Fred. “Do they laugh very loud,
Lee?”

“Not as loud as some poor fish that I know of,” retorted Lee.

“Wow!” exclaimed Bobby, laughing. “That had all the earmarks of a dig,
Lee.”

Fred opened his mouth to make a cutting remark, but at that moment his
reel whizzed, and for the next five minutes he was too busy to say a
word. The fish fought gamely, and the frail rod at times bent almost
double and threatened to snap. But at last Fred landed the gleaming fish
on the grass.

“Good work!” applauded Lee. “After that I take back my unkind words,
Fred.”

“That’s all right,” said Fred, “nothing could make me mad now. Isn’t
that fish a beauty? I’ll bet he weighs all of three pounds.”

“Wouldn’t be surprised,” assented Bobby. “Two or three more like that,
and we can have a feast.”

But the required number failed to materialize, and after half an hour of
patient angling, the boys decided to try their luck in a new location.
Accordingly they moved some two or three hundred yards further upstream,
and cast again. Here the fish were biting better, and in a little while
even Lee had caught a fair sized fish, while Bobby and Fred each had two
to their credit. Content with this haul, they decided to go back to the
boat and continue their journey. They strung the fish on a bit of line,
and then made their way back to where they had left the craft.

But the motor boat was nowhere to be seen!

For a moment all three were too surprised to speak. Bobby was the first
to break the dazed silence.

“It looks as though we were up against it, fellows,” he said, soberly.
“How do you suppose that boat got away, anyway?”

“It must be we didn’t pull it up far enough,” said Lee, “although I
didn’t think the current was strong enough here to float a chip away.
But now it looks as though I made a bad mistake.”

“I don’t think there is any mistake about this,” said Bobby, who had
been doing some quick thinking. “That boat would never have floated away
unless somebody had helped it to. We had it drawn up too far for that.”

“But who in the world would there be here to set it adrift?” inquired
Lee, in bewilderment.

As though in answer to his question, there was a sudden stir and rustle
in a tall bunch of swamp grass in back of them, and as they whirled
about they saw a young negro boy leap from the grass and start running
as fast as his legs could carry him.

“After him, fellows!” yelled Bobby, and the three comrades took after
the negro at top speed. The latter was fleet, but he was no match for
Bobby who soon outdistanced his companions and was close on the negro’s
heels. The darkey, hearing the pursuit so close to him, suddenly turned,
and Bobby thought for a second that he was going to show fight, but
instead he fell on his knees and started to beg for mercy.

“D—don’t hit me, white boy,” he stammered. “Ah was made to do it, ’deed
Ah was.”

“Do what?” asked Bobby. “I haven’t accused you of doing anything yet.”

“Nossuh, you hasn’t, and Ah wouldn’t have shoved off dat boat, neider,
if mah boss hadn’t done tole me he’d skin me alive if Ah didn’t.”

“I know this coon,” said Lee, who with Fred came up panting at this
juncture. “He works for Jim Boolus, and I reckon that explains how our
boat came to get adrift. How did you know we were here?” he continued,
addressing the negro.

“Ah was rowin’ Marse Boolus down de ribber,” answered the darkey, “an’
fust thing Ah knows he spies you-all’s boat wid its nose stuck up on de
mud bank. ‘Dat’s de Cartiers’ motor boat,’ he says to me, gettin’ all
excited. ‘Suppose young Cartier and dose fresh friends o’ his’n must be
aroun’ somewhere!’”

“‘Yessuh,’ Ah says, and keeps right on rowin’. But we hadn’t gone no
distance ’tall when he tells me to quit.”

“‘Gimme dem oars, you fool nigger,’ he says, ‘Ah’ll row dis boat in, and
Ah wants you should step ashore an’ heave dat boat off de bank.’”

“Ah jes’ had to do like he says, ’cause Marse Boolus is a powerful mean
man when he gits riled. But Ah hadn’t any more dan got ashore when he
hears one of you white boys shoutin’ somethin’, an’ he thinks you’re
comin’ back for your boat. Wid dat he starts pullin’ away like mad,
leavin’ me up on de bank. Ah shoved off de boat, anyway, thinkin’ dat
he’d come back an’ pick me up, but he jes’ kep’ right on goin’, and here
I is.”

“We ought to pitch you into the river and let you swim after him,” said
Lee, angrily.

The frightened negro rolled his eyes. “Ah’s sorry, boss,” he whimpered,
“but Marse Boolus would jest as soon land me wid an oar as not if Ah
didn’t do what he tole me to.”

“It’s no use bothering with him,” said Bobby. “The damage is done now,
and we’ll have to try to get out of this mess some way.”

“I suppose Boolus is chuckling now to think how he’s got even with us,”
said Fred, clenching his fists. “I wish now he’d fallen out of that
buggy onto some nice hard rocks instead of into soft sand.”

“Well we’re in a pretty pickle, anyway,” said Lee, as the full extent of
the calamity began to dawn on him. “We’re somewhere about the middle of
the swamp, without any way to get out unless we swim, and no provisions
except a few fish.”

“Oh, it may not be quite as bad as that,” said Bobby. “How do you know
there’s no way out except by the river? There’s probably some path
through, if we can only find it.”

“Yes, but that’s a big if,” said Lee. “But I guess we might as well go
back and get those fish and cook them. We’ll have to camp out to-night,
anyway, and then see what we can do in the morning.”

As nobody could suggest anything better than this, they made their way
back to the river, taking the negro with them. “There’s no knowing what
he’ll be up to,” said Lee. “We’d better keep an eye on him.”

They cleaned and cooked the fish, and ate them in silence, each one busy
with his own thoughts. The flat and dreary swamp spread out on all sides
of their camp, except that bounded by the river. As evening came on, a
cold white mist arose from the morass, causing them to shiver and throw
more wood on their fire. Fortunately there was a plentiful supply of
driftwood along the shore, and they resolved to keep the fire going all
night, each one taking a turn at standing watch and putting fresh fuel
on. As twilight deepened into night, strange noises arose on every side;
the croaking of frogs, the weird calling of water fowl, and above all
the fierce hum of mosquitoes that came in clouds to add to the
discomfort of their situation.

“Where’s that darkey?” exclaimed Lee suddenly.

They had momentarily forgotten him, and now, when they looked around,
there was no sign of him. He had disappeared into the surrounding
blackness, and the boys knew that it would be hopeless to look for him.

“It’s just as well, anyway,” said Fred. “He had a treacherous look in
his eyes, and I feel better now that he’s not around.”

“Yes, but the chances are he knew of a way out of this place,” said Lee,
“and we might have made him show it to us. But he’s gone, and there’s no
use worrying about it, I suppose.”

“Well, if he can get out, we can, too,” said Bobby, hopefully. “We’ll
get a start as soon as it’s light enough to see, and maybe we’ll be home
in time for lunch.”




CHAPTER XIX

IN DESPERATE PERIL


Bobby stood the first watch, Fred the second, and Lee the last. Nothing
of any importance occurred during the night, although the swamp all
around them seemed teeming with life. Above the croaking of frogs and
the hum of night insects there rose at times a strange bellowing noise,
that sent shivers creeping over Bobby and Fred, and which they were at a
loss to explain. But next morning Lee told them the source of the
strange noise.

“What you heard were alligators,” said Lee. “There are lots of them in
this swamp, and we’ve got to look out for them. They’re pretty fierce,
and they’ll attack anything under the sun.”

“Gee!” said Bobby, “if I had known that, I think I’d have spent the
night up a tree. I could hear one pretty close while I was keeping the
fire going, too.”

“Probably he was attracted by the light of the fire,” said Lee. “But I
don’t think they’d bother any one on land, as a rule. But they’ll tackle
anything in the water, and if they once get a grip with those pointed
teeth of theirs, its all over for the one that’s caught. The alligator
just drags him down under the surface, waits until he’s drowned and then
drags him up on the nearest sandbank and swallows him at his leisure.”

“That’s fine—for the alligator,” muttered Fred, with a slight shiver
which was not all the result of the clinging mist. “I don’t think I’ll
do much swimming while we’re in this swamp.”

“I’d advise you not to,” said Lee. “I sure hate ’gators, but just the
same I wouldn’t mind finding a few of their eggs for breakfast.”

“Eggs!” exclaimed Bobby and Fred together.

“Certainly,” said Lee, laughing at their amazed look. “I don’t care for
them much as a rule, but one or two now wouldn’t be half bad.”

“Good-night!” exclaimed Fred. “What do they taste like, anyway?”

“Oh, they’re not so bad. They have a rather unpleasant musky taste, but
if you’re hungry enough you don’t mind that. The darkeys think they’re
fine, and spend a lot of time hunting them out.”

“Where do you find the eggs?” inquired Fred.

“The ’gators dig out holes in the sand or mud, fill them with eggs, and
then cover the whole thing over with more sand,” said Lee. “After a
while the heat of the sun hatches out the eggs, and then the mother
’gator takes charge of the little fellows and protects them until
they’re big enough to take care of themselves.”

“Well, I feel hungry enough now to eat an alligator egg omelet,” said
Bobby. “I think we’d better get started, and maybe we’ll run across one
of those cute little nests Lee was telling us about.”

After eating the last of the fish they had caught the day before, the
boys started out, intending to follow the river as nearly as possible.
But they soon found that the ground kept getting softer at every step
they took, and were forced to bear away from the stream, although still
keeping as near as possible to the right direction. Lee was more
experienced than the other boys in the matter of making progress over
this kind of treacherous footing, and he took the lead. On every side
dark pools of water oozed up through the quaking ground. Here and there
tussocks of grass had formed, and these offered the only footing to be
had at all. Even these were very soft and shaky, and it was necessary to
leap continually from one to the other in order to avoid sinking in. At
rare intervals some larger hillock then, usual would give the boys a
chance to rest a few minutes and get their breath, and it was on one of
these that they paused at last, panting and tired.

“Gee!” exclaimed Bobby, as he mopped at his streaming face. “A mile of
this is worse than ten miles on hard ground.”

“Harder, and a lot more dangerous,” agreed Lee, soberly. “One fall into
one of those green pools and you’d be done for. It would suck you down
so fast that nothing could save you.”

The heat was growing intense, and, aided by the rank steam that ascended
from the rotting vegetation, seemed almost unbearable. But the boys knew
that they had to keep on, because if darkness found them before they
reached some firmer ground, their fate would be sealed. After nightfall
they would be almost certain to fall into one of the green and stagnant
pools and be sucked down to a horrible death.

Even as the boys tried to rest and get their breath, they could feel
their feet slowly sinking into the muddy grass, and as they lifted their
feet pools of water formed in the depressions left by them.

“Guess it’s a case of ‘keep moving,’” said Fred, as one foot sank in to
his ankles and he pulled it out with difficulty. “This swamp is the last
place in the world I’d pick for a hike if I had my choice.”

“There’s no choice about this,” said Bobby, setting his lips grimly.
“We’re here, and we’ve got to get out just as soon as we can. Let’s go!”

Somewhat rested by their brief halt, they started on again. Suddenly
Lee, who was ahead, shouted a warning.

“We can’t get any farther this way!” he cried, as Bobby and Fred caught
up with him, and he pointed ahead. The boys saw a large stagnant pond,
covered with green scum, from which protruded the rotting trunks of
trees. At intervals around the bank lay what appeared to be other logs,
but even as they looked, one of these seeming logs stirred, and crawling
slowly through the ooze, flopped into the water with a loud splash.

“We’re blocked, sure enough,” said Bobby. “We’ll have to go back and try
some fresh path.”

“Looks that way,” assented Lee. “And I hope we find some bit of solid
ground soon, fellows, because I’m pretty near all in. I can’t go much
further.”

For the first time the boys realized the deadly danger in which they
stood. The strenuous exertions necessary to keep away from being
swallowed up by the black mud, the terrific heat, and the deadly gases
that rose continually from the rotting vegetable matter, were all
combining to sap their strength. And if that once gave out they realized
there was no alternative but death in the clinging, suffocating mud.

Bobby felt his own heart sink, but he showed nothing of this in his
manner as he said: “Ah, we’ll be all right in a little while, Lee. We’re
bound to hit dry ground pretty soon. Keep a stiff upper lip and we’ll
get through right enough.”

“Well, you’d better set the pace, and I’ll do my best to keep up,”
returned the Southern boy.

Accordingly, Bobby started off, followed by Lee, with Fred last. Bobby
had become somewhat used to picking his way over the grass tussocks by
this time, and in addition he seemed to have a sort of instinct which,
told him what path to take and which to avoid. Under his guidance they
made better progress, and after a time Fred remarked:

“I may be only dreaming, but it seems to me that the ground is getting a
little firmer. What do you fellows think?”

“I reckon it is,” panted Lee. “I’ve heard the darkeys say there was an
island in the swamp somewhere, and maybe we’re getting near it.”

Sure enough, they soon spied higher ground ahead of them, with some
trees growing on it. The sight gave them fresh courage, and they
struggled gamely on, until at last came a time when they could put foot
to ground without feeling it sink into slimy mud.




CHAPTER XX

THE ALLIGATOR’S JAWS


“Thank Heaven,” gasped Lee, as the three boys threw themselves down and
lay panting in the grateful shade of a big tree. “I’m all in. I couldn’t
possibly have gone half a mile more.”

“I guess we’re about as bad,” said Fred. “I’m willing to admit that I
was never so near the end of my rope. Any one would have thought you
knew this island was here, Bobby, from the way you headed for it.”

“It was just a guess,” declared Bobby. “I figured that probably if we
got further away from the river the ground might be less swampy and it
would pay us to go in that direction even if we were getting farther
from home.”

“We wouldn’t have got there very fast the way I was heading you anyway,”
said Lee. “Poor mother will be terribly worried about us.”

“Yes,” agreed Bobby soberly, “that’s the trouble; when, we fellows get
into trouble of any kind, our mothers suffer more over it than we do.”

In a short time they had recovered a good deal from their strenuous
exertions, and now all three found themselves ravenously hungry. But to
feel hungry and to satisfy that hunger were two very different things,
as they soon discovered. They had read of people marooned on islands in
the ocean, but in every such case there had seemed to be a convenient
flock of goats or a handy beach strewn with shellfish. But after the
boys had thoroughly ransacked their island, they found no such
convenient supply. The place was only about a quarter of a mile across,
hemmed in on every side with brown water and black mud.

Luckily, however, they had hung onto their fishing rods, and they had no
difficulty in digging up a plentiful supply of worms in the rich earth.
Fred was the first to get a bite, and he reeled in the fish as fast as
he could, being much too eager to see the fish toasting over a fire to
make any attempt to “play” him. It was not long before they had four
small fish, and these they proceeded to clean and kill without wasting
any time over it.

“Scubbity-yow!” exclaimed Fred, as he bit into the delicious morsel, “I
never knew a fish could taste so good. These fellows are only samples.
We’ll have to get busy and catch about a hundred more before I’ll feel
satisfied.”

“If you’ll eat a hundred, I’ll catch them for you,” laughed Bobby.

“And I’ll clean them and cook them for you,” seconded Lee.

“All right, go ahead and start in,” said Fred, but the others were not
to be taken in so easily.

“No, you don’t,” laughed Bobby. “You get busy and catch some yourself.
I’ll bet you couldn’t eat two more to save your life.”

“Well, I’d have a lot of fun trying, anyway,” said Fred, regretfully.
“But if you fellows are too lazy to catch fish for me, I suppose I’ll
have to do it myself.”

“Looks a lot that way,” agreed Lee, as he cast his line into the water.
“You’d better hurry, too, before Bobby and I have them all out.”

They caught and ate fish until they could eat no more, and then lay down
in the shade to rest.

“This might be worse, I suppose,” said Bobby, chewing reflectively on a
long blade of grass. “A couple of hours ago it would have seemed like
Heaven to us.”

“It isn’t so bad here,” said Lee, “but we can’t stay here forever, and
after we leave we’ll be as badly off as we were before.”

“Likely,” admitted Bobby, “but then, on the other hand, it doesn’t seem
possible we’ll strike anything worse than we went through this morning,
anyway.”

“Oh, cut out worrying about the future,” broke in Fred. “For my part,
I’ve had enough to eat—although I’ll admit a steady fish diet is
beginning to get tiresome—and I’ve got a soft and shady place to lie
where I can hear the little birdies singing. So why worry, say I.”

“Yes,” said Lee, scornfully, “and you can hear the pretty alligators
singing, too, if you listen hard. Not to mention the mosquitoes and
bull-frogs.”

“Better let him be cheerful while he can, Lee,” said Bobby. “He’ll soon
forget how happy he is after we get started again.”

“Well, we’ve got a lot to be thankful for, anyway,” contended Fred.
“Suppose we’d all been as fat as Pee Wee, and had to go hopping through
this everlasting swamp like—like—”

“Like turkeys on a hot stove?” suggested Lee.

“That seems to about cover it.” said Fred, with a laugh, “even if it
isn’t very complimentary to us. But as I was saying, if we’d all been as
fat as Pee Wee, we’d never have got here at all. This swamp was never
intended for heavyweights.”

“I don’t think it was ever intended for any kind of human being,” said
Lee.

“Oh, I don’t know about that,” said Bobby. “It strikes me that this
would be an ideal place to put Ap Plunkit and Ben Tompkins, for
instance.”

“Wow!” yelled Fred, delightedly. “You certainly had an idea that time,
Bobby. And while we’re at it, why not Sandy Jackson and his friend,
Snath? Seems to me they’d fit in pretty well, too.”

“Come to think of it, though,” said Bobby, with a serious air, “don’t
you think it would be playing it rather low down on the poor alligators!
What have they ever done to us that we should wish that bunch on them?”

“Perhaps you’re right,” conceded Fred. “I hadn’t thought of that before.
But I guess some of those big fellows we saw this morning are able to
take care of themselves.”

“I don’t know who those fellows are you’re talking about, except Snath,”
said Lee, “but if they’re any meaner than alligators, I don’t want to
know anything about them. They’re the meanest things alive, I think.”

“Speaking of ’gators reminds me,” said Bobby, “why not try and locate
some of those eggs you were telling us about, Lee? A little change of
diet wouldn’t do us any harm.”

“All right, let’s look for some,” said Lee, springing to his feet, “that
is, if Fred isn’t having too good a time doing nothing to be disturbed.”

“No rest for the wicked,” groaned Fred, scrambling to his feet. “Lead
on, Lee, I’m with you.”

The three boys followed around the shore, looking for a sandy beach,
which, as Lee told them, was the most likely place to find the eggs. Lee
had cut himself a sharp stick, and when they had at last found a sandy
place, he stuck this into the sand at intervals, afterwards examining
the end to see if it had found a nest. After quite a time spent in
fruitless proddings, he at last met with success. The end of the stick
came up dripping yellow.

“Here’s a nest!” he shouted. “Dig in, fellows and we’ll soon have all we
want.”

Suiting the action to the word, he began scooping up the sand with his
hands, and Bobby and Fred followed suit. In a short time they had
uncovered a small heap of alligator eggs, each one about the size of a
goose’s egg. Absorbed in their find, they had no thought of danger,
until suddenly Bobby, chancing to glance up, gave a wild yell of
warning. Springing to their feet, Fred and Lee saw a huge alligator,
measuring a good fifteen feet, almost on top of them, great jaws gaping
and small, vicious eyes snapping wickedly!




CHAPTER XXI

A TERRIBLE MOMENT


All three boys jumped for safety, but Fred’s ankle turned in the soft
sand, and he fell, striking his head against a stone as he went down.
Stunned, he lay an easy prey for the alligator, that made for him with
all the speed of which it was capable.

For a brief second Bobby and Lee stood rooted in their tracks, appalled
at the horrible menace to their friend. Then, quick as a flash, Bobby
leaped toward the ugly monster, picking up the stick Lee had been using
for hunting eggs.

The alligator was not ten feet from Fred when Bobby leaped in front of
it, and using the stick as a club, dealt the ferocious brute a stinging
blow on the end of its snout. The vicious little eyes blinked, but the
monster did not stop. Again Bobby struck, with all the strength of his
sinewy young arm. The great jaws snapped wickedly, but the alligator
could not stand this severe pain in the only sensitive part of his
anatomy, and it stopped a moment, glaring at this presumptuous human who
looked so small and yet could hurt so much. Following up his advantage,
Bobby struck again, and at the same second Lee dashed in and, exerting
all his strength, lifted Fred in his arms and staggered off with him.

The alligator, infuriated at being thus deprived of its prey, made a
wild lunge at Bobby, who tried to land another effective blow on the
sensitive snout. But this time he missed, and the big reptile caught the
stick in its jaws, snapping it to splinters. Bobby was thrown off his
balance and nearly followed the stick, but recovered his poise just in
time, for the alligator turned with surprising agility and slashed at
him with its heavy tail. Had that deadly blow reached its mark Bobby’s
career would have ended. He could not recover his balance in time to
run, but as the powerful tail whizzed toward him he seized the only
chance left him, and leaped clear over it. The alligator never got
another chance at him, for when he landed he was off like a shot after
his chums. The alligator followed him for a few steps, but apparently
saw that it was hopeless to try to catch him, and turning, dragged
itself down to the water, which it entered with a sullen splash.

Bobby, seeing this over his shoulder, slowed down and called to Lee, who
laid Fred on the ground and started trying to revive him. By the time
Bobby arrived Fred had opened his eyes, and now, with Lee’s help, he
made shift to sit up.

“What happened to me?” he inquired, feebly.

“Not near as much as almost happened to you,” said Bobby. “You came
pretty near waking up inside an alligator. But how do you feel now,
Fred?” and he knelt beside his chum to examine a bad looking cut just
over his temple.

“Oh, a little dizzy but I guess I can still sit up and take notice,”
said Fred, with a weak grin. “I remember falling now, and I suppose I
must have knocked my head on something. What happened after that?”

“Oh, nothing much,” said Bobby. “I took the alligator’s attention off
you, and Lee toted you away to a safer place than the neighborhood of
that nest. I’ve got an idea that must have been the owner of those eggs
that attacked us.”

“The way you tell it, it doesn’t seem like much, but I’ve got an idea
you and Lee saved my life,” said Fred.

“Oh well, we only did what you would have done for either of us if we
had been down and out,” said Bobby, “so let’s forget about it. The worst
part of it is we’re as far as ever from having alligator egg omelet.”

“Well, let’s go back and get them, then,” said Fred coolly, getting to
his feet. “My head still feels a little funny, but anyway I can keep a
look-out, while you two get the eggs. We won’t be caught napping this
time, and I guess we can run faster than any ’gator.”

“I like your nerve, anyway!” exclaimed Lee, “Here you’ve been within an
ace of being gobbled up by that ugly brute, and still you want to go
back and have another try at her precious eggs. Likely enough she’ll get
you for good this time.”

“I’m game to try it, anyway,” said Bobby. “But I don’t think you’d
better come, Fred. That was a pretty bad crack you got, and you’d better
wait here while we try it.”

“Not a bit of it,” protested Fred. “I feel all right now, and I’m going
to have alligator eggs for supper if I have to go for them alone.”

“All right then, back we go,” said Bobby, and the three boys retraced
their steps to where they had all three narrowly escaped death only a
few minutes before. When they arrived, there was no sign of the
alligator, however, and it did not take them long to uncover the eggs.
There was a large number of them, each one about the size and shape of a
large goose egg, and the boys took off their coats and wrapped as many
of the eggs as they could carry in them. But they took no chances of
being surprised this time, and kept a sharp look-out. And it was well
they did, for they had no more than got the eggs wrapped up than Lee
gave a shout of warning.

“Here she comes, fellows!” he yelled, “let’s go!”

The boys needed no second admonition, but after a startled glance, took
to their heels in most earnest fashion. For sure enough, the mother
alligator, after cooling her smarting nose in the water, had had an
uneasy feeling that all was not well, and had started up the bank to
investigate. When she caught sight of the boys she gave a bellow and
dragged herself through the sand at increased speed, but the boys did
not wait for her coming this time, and were soon at a safe distance.

“Gee!” exclaimed Bobby, slowing down. “It’s a lucky thing that
alligators can’t run fast. If they could, I guess we’d have to live in
trees.”

“They’re slow enough on land, but you ought to see them in the water,”
returned Lee. “They can go fast enough then, believe me.”

“I’ll believe you right away, without putting it to a test,” laughed
Fred. “An alligator’s mouth seems too full of teeth to suit me.”

“Yes, they have got a pretty complete outfit,” said Lee, “and they keep
growing in all the time, the new ones forcing out the old. I’ve heard
that a ’gator has four or five sets of teeth during a lifetime.”

“Gee!” exclaimed Bobby. “I should think one set like that would last any
animal a lifetime.”

“Yes, but they often break them taking bites out of people who try to
steal their eggs,” said Lee. “It must hurt the poor alligators when they
break a tooth that way.”

“That’s the only reason I ran so fast,” said Fred. “I wasn’t afraid of
the alligator, but I didn’t want the poor thing to hurt its teeth on
me.”

“Oh, we believe that,” said Lee sarcastically.

“Well, if you believe that, you’ll believe anything,” said Fred
brazenly. “I’ll have to think up something real good next time.”

“I don’t mind telling you fellows the real reason why I ran, if you coax
me,” declared Bobby.

“I’ll bite,” said Lee. “Why did you run?”

“Because I couldn’t fly,” replied Bobby.




CHAPTER XXII

THE DISTANT HOWL


“That sounds like one of Billy’s jokes,” declared Fred, “and I can’t say
anything worse than that about it.”

“No, that’s a pretty hard knock, all right,” admitted Bobby, “but I’ll
try not to do it again.”

“As a punishment, I vote that we appoint Bobby to try the first
alligator’s egg,” suggested Lee.

“Second the motion!” shouted Fred enthusiastically. “You’re unanimously
elected, Bobby.”

“Well, somebody had to try Limburger cheese the first time,” said Bobby,
“so I suppose I might as well be the goat this time. But you’ll have to
tell me how to cook them, Lee.”

“You can cook them any way, the same as a hen’s egg,” said Lee. “But I
suppose, seeing we’ve nothing to boil water in, that we’d better roast a
few and try them that way.”

“It doesn’t matter to me,” said Bobby. “As long as I’m to be official
taster, they’ll probably taste just as bad one way as another.”

During this conversation, the boys had been heading for the spot where
they had eaten lunch, and having reached it they proceeded to build a
fire. They soon had a good blaze going, and in accordance with Lee’s
directions, let it burn down until there was nothing but red embers
left. Then they dug out a space under the ashes, placed a few of the
eggs in the hollow, and raked the hot ashes over them.

“Leave them there a few minutes, and they’ll be fit for a king to eat,”
said the Southern boy.

“Seems to me you’re what Mr. Leith would call an unbounded optimist,”
said Bobby. “I’ve got my doubts if they’ll even be fit for me to eat,
let alone a king.”

“Well, we won’t have long to wait to find out,” said Lee. “I imagine
they’re pretty nearly cooked now.”

“Oh, don’t be in a hurry,” said Bobby. “I’m perfectly willing to wait a
while, you know.”

“Maybe you are, but we’re not,” retorted Lee, as he scraped the fire
aside and fished out an egg. “Here you are, Bobby, I’ve tasted them
before and they’re not really so bad, especially when you’re hungry. Go
to it.”

“How do you eat the things, anyway?” asked Bobby, looking doubtfully at
the strange object. “I suppose neither of you happens to have an egg cup
and a spoon in your pocket, have you?”

“I usually carry them around with me, but I reckon I must have lost
them,” said Lee, sarcastically. “Just chip the end off, and go to it,
Bobby. You’ll enjoy it, believe me.”

“I’d like to believe you, but I’m afraid I can’t,” said Bobby. “Well, I
can only die once. Good-by, fellows. Here goes.”

He chipped part of the thick outside covering off the egg, and very
gingerly took a small bite.

“What’s it like?” questioned Fred, watching him anxiously. “Is it as bad
as I think it is?”

“It isn’t bad at all, if I only had a little salt to go with it,” said
Bobby, taking another and larger bite this time. “You fellows had better
dig in, or there won’t be any left.”

“What does it taste like, anyway?” asked Fred, doubtfully.

“Alligator egg,” returned Bobby, munching away. “I was elected to try
these eggs first, but there was nothing in it about telling you fellows
what they tasted like. Try ’em for yourselves.”

“But that was the idea that you should taste them, so you could tell us
whether they were good or not,” complained Fred.

“You should have thought of that at the time, then,” said Bobby. “It’s
too late now. Help yourself. After all, the only way to learn is by
experience, as the coach is always telling us back at Rockledge.”

“Well, I’m getting hungry enough to eat an alligator, much less its
eggs. Pass me over one of those things, will you, Lee?”

“Sure thing,” said that individual, “and while I’m about it, I reckon
I’ll have one for myself.”

Presently all three boys were munching away, and after they had each
eaten two of the eggs the general verdict was that they “were not half
bad.”

“I only wish I could get a few home with me,” said Bobby, with a
mischievous twinkle in his eye. “I’d like to give a few to our cook,
Meena, and see what she’d do about it. She says she doesn’t like boys,
and I’ve got a hunch she’d like this one less after that.”

“I wish I had a few of her doughnuts,” sighed Fred. “I don’t think she
likes me much, but sometimes I can’t help liking her after I’ve eaten
some of the good things she cooks.”

“Please don’t mention it,” returned Bobby. “It makes my mouth water just
to think of it. Those eggs are filling, but that’s about the best you
can say of them. But I suppose we ought to be thankful to have even
them. Those and what fish we can catch wouldn’t keep us going very long,
though. When shall we make another try to get out of this everlasting
swamp?”

“I think we’d better start as soon as it’s light enough to see,
to-morrow,” said Lee. “I hate to think of tackling the bog again, but
we’ve just got to do it.”

“Well, then, that’s settled,” came from Fred. “We’ll get a good sleep
to-night and start strong, anyway. Don’t you think it would be a good
idea to cook a lot of those eggs and take them along with us? There’s no
telling how long it may be before we find any other food.”

“That’s a good idea,” said Bobby. “Let’s get busy and cook some right
now. Thank fortune they are fresh.”

Before long the boys had a dozen of the alligator’s eggs cooked hard. By
the time they had finished this task, it was nearly dark, and after
gathering a good supply of firewood they built up the blaze and lay down
to discuss their plans for the morrow.

As night came on all manner of strange noises arose from the swamp,
chief among them being the snorting bellow of the alligators. Suddenly,
in a momentary lull, they heard, far off, a wild, long-drawn cry, that
hushed their voices and set their hair creeping.

The shrieking wail, carrying an indescribable note of ferocity and
menace, rose and fell, and then was gone, eclipsed by the nearer noises
of the swamp, that now resumed their usual volume.

“What was that?” whispered Fred, as the boys gazed wide-eyed at each
other.

“That was the cry of a cougar,” said Lee, his voice a trifle shaky.

“A cougar!” exclaimed Fred, “what’s that?”

“Its a kind of panther,” explained Lee. “There used to be a lot of them
around here, but now there aren’t many left. What there are, though, are
fierce enough to make up for that.”

“Gee!” exclaimed Bobby. “I hope that fellow doesn’t take it into his
head to pay us a visit.”

“He wouldn’t be likely to come into the swamp this far,” said Lee,
although there was not much conviction in his voice. “But we’ll have to
be on our guard anyway. We’d better stand watches to-night and keep the
fire going.”

“We’d probably have had to do that, anyhow,” said Fred. “Your Southern
winters aren’t like the ones we’re used to up North, but just the same
it’s pretty cold sleeping out at night without any blankets.”

“I should say so,” said Bobby. “It’s fairly warm when the sun’s shining,
but I thought I was going to freeze to death last night, sure.”

The boys listened anxiously for a repetition of the wild cry that had so
disturbed them, but apparently the cougar was not coming in their
direction, for they heard nothing further to indicate his presence.
Nevertheless, they kept a good fire going all that night, which
prevented the one on watch from seeing two glowing green eyes whose
owner prowled restlessly about just beyond range of the firelight, as
silent as any shadow but more to be feared than the bellowing
alligators, who made the night hideous with their noise.




CHAPTER XXIII

TRACKED BY A PANTHER


But in, the morning there was no sign of this midnight prowler, and with
the rising sun the boys gave little thought to the weird sounds of the
night before. They were up at the first break of dawn, somewhat sore and
stiff from the effects of their hard bed, but still full of “pep” for
anything the day might have to offer.

They had decided to follow in a general way the course that had taken
them so far, that is, head in the general direction of home, but still
keep away from the impassable low ground in the vicinity of the river.
Bobby wanted Lee to take the lead, but the latter objected.

“I got us into a pretty bad mess the last time,” he said, “and you got
us out again. So now, you’d better lead again.”

“Oh, it was mostly luck on my part,” Bobby replied. “How did I know we
were going to hit on this island?”

“Your brand of luck is what we need, then,” said Lee. “Let’s hope it
will hold out long enough to get us out of this swamp.”

“Well, I’ll do my best, then,” said Bobby, “but don’t blame me if I land
you at the bottom of some nice mudhole.”

“I’ll take a chance on your getting through all right, and it will be
more than luck that does it, too,” said Fred.

“Let’s go, then,” urged Bobby; and the three friends resumed their
perilous journey.

They had by this time become so expert in choosing the best spots to
step that they found their progress less arduous than they had expected.
But now a new difficulty arose, for the sun became clouded over, and
this left them at a loss as to direction, this having been their only
guide so far.

Bobby grew more and more anxious as the haziness continued to increase,
and at last called a halt on a bit of high ground that was a little
harder than the surrounding bog.

“Looks as though we’re rather up against it now, fellows,” he said. “If
we can’t see the sun, we won’t know what direction we’re going in, and
chances are we’ll just be getting in deeper all the time instead of
getting out.”

“But we can’t stay here,” objected Lee. “We’ve just got to keep going,
and hope we’ll come out somewhere, anyway. We know we’re headed about
right now, so why not try to keep on that way?”

Bobby shook his head doubtfully, but as there seemed to be no
alternative, except to return to their island, he started on again.
Indeed, he felt far from certain that he could find the island again, or
he might have proposed going back to it.

Fortunately, the ground seemed to be getting somewhat firmer, but as
they progressed the trees and undergrowth became so dense that they
found increasing difficulty in making progress. Several times Bobby
stopped and peered about uneasily among the trees, apparently in search
of something which he could not locate.

“What’s the matter, Bobby?” asked Fred, at last, made uneasy by his
friend’s uneasiness. “What are you looking for, anyway?”

“I may be wrong,” said Bobby, stopping again, “but I can’t help feeling
as though we were being followed and watched by something. I thought I
saw something in the underbrush just a little while ago, but it was gone
so quickly that I couldn’t be sure.”

“What did it look like?” queried Lee, quickly.

“I’m not sure, as I say, that I saw anything,” said Bobby, “but it just
seemed to me as though I saw a flash of light brown against a tree
trunk, and then it disappeared so quickly that I thought I might be
mistaken.”

“Light brown?” whispered Lee, with a frightened look in his eyes.
“Bobby, that’s the color of a cougar, and you remember that cry we heard
last night—”

His voice trailed off into silence, and the boys peered fearfully
through the matted tangle of vines and underbrush. They could see
nothing to confirm their fears, but suddenly a twig snapped not far from
this, and they thought they could hear a stealthy rustling.

“What would we better do, Bobby?” asked Fred, anxiously. “If we only had
a gun with us, we could soon take care of that fellow if he comes after
us, but as it is—”

He had no need to finish the sentence, for his companions knew what he
meant. Unarmed, with not even a knife among them, except, of course,
their pocket knives, they would be no match for the savage beast that
was stalking them. In all probability, as Lee told them, the panther
would wait until toward dark, and then leap on them at the first
opportunity.

“If that’s so,” said Bobby, who had been doing some quick thinking, “it
seems to me as though we’d best pick out the place to fight it out
instead of leaving it to Mr. Cougar.”

“Yes, but one place looks about as bad as another to me around here,”
said Lee. “What’s your idea, Bobby?”

“I think we’d better get up a tree,” said Bobby, “then if he comes up
after us, as he’ll probably do if we keep him waiting long enough, we’ll
have a chance of beating him off with clubs. On the ground here there’s
hardly room enough to move, and he’d have us at his mercy.”

Bobby had hardly finished speaking when they heard another stick snap,
closer this time than before, and although still they could see nothing,
they had little need of their eyes to tell them that the peril was close
and imminent.

“There’s a big tree over there,” said Bobby, pointing to a towering
giant that stood somewhat apart from the rest. “We’ll make for that, but
take it easy, so it won’t look as though we were in a hurry.”

He started toward the tree indicated, pausing only long enough to pick
up a stout section of a fallen branch that lay at his feet. Fred and Lee
followed his example, and they made quietly for the tree, controlling an
almost overpowering impulse to break into a run. They kept a wary
lookout, and before they reached it, all three saw the cougar plainly as
he crossed a slight opening in the underbrush. He was gone again in a
second, but the boys knew now beyond any doubt who their enemy was.

“We’ll be lucky if he leaves us alone until we get up the tree,” said
Fred, voicing the thought that was in all their minds.

“We’ll have to chance that,” said Bobby. “I’ll be the last one to go up,
and I’ll pass the clubs up to you.”

By this time they had reached the tree, still unmolested by the panther.
Lee started up first, and then Fred. Bobby admitted afterward that he
spent a nervous two minutes on the ground, waiting for them to get far
enough up so that he could start. Every second he expected a lithe form
to hurl itself upon him. In reality it was only a few seconds before
Fred reached down for the clubs, for both he and Lee were climbing
faster than they had ever done before in all their active lives. The
boys passed the clubs from one to the other, two climbing while the
other hung on and held them, and in this manner they quickly negotiated
the twenty odd feet to the heavy branches. As they swung themselves into
a broad fork they noticed for the first time that their fingers were
torn and bleeding from contact with the rough bark, but they were too
thankful at being there to worry about that.

“Gee!” exclaimed Bobby, drawing a long breath of relief as he peered
downward in search of their foe, “I expected to feel that brute’s claws
in my shoulder every second.”

“So did I,” said Fred. “If he’d attacked us while we were shinnying up,
it would have been all over for us.”

“We’re a long way from being safe yet,” Lee reminded them. “That beast
can climb a tree like a cat going over a fence, and he won’t leave us
alone here, you can bet on that.”

“Well, let him come,” said Bobby, coolly, as he drew his jackknife and
proceeded to whittle a handle on his club. “We’ve got a chance here
anyway. I only hope he doesn’t try to starve us out. We can’t stay up
here forever, if he decides to play a waiting game.”

“There he is!” shouted Lee, almost before Bobby had ceased speaking. And
sure enough, the cougar, apparently deciding that he would no longer
keep to cover, came bounding out into the little open space at the base
of the tree. He glared upward with baleful eyes and paced quickly around
the tree a few times, switching his long tail and growling ominously.

The boys gripped their clubs and braced themselves, expecting the brute
to come climbing upward at any second. The cougar seemed in no hurry,
however, but kept circling the tree, growling louder all the time and
evidently working himself into a greater rage with every step.

“Hold my club a minute, Fred,” exclaimed Bobby, suddenly. “I’ve got an
idea,” and without further explanation, he set feverishly to work
hacking off some of the smaller branches near him. Without exactly
knowing what his plan was, Fred and Lee started cutting too, and between
them they soon had quite an armful. Bobby then took all these branches,
and with some fish line he drew from his pocket he proceeded to lash
them to the tree just below the crotch in which they were perched.

“When, he comes, that will slow him down, and give us a chance at him,”
explained Bobby.

“Fine,” exclaimed Fred and Lee together. “But look out, fellows!” Lee
added, “he’s getting ready to climb!”

The panther, who had been watching these proceedings suspiciously,
seemed suddenly to make up his mind, and with a vicious, spitting snarl
leaped to the trunk of the tree and started up at a terrific pace. The
boys gripped their clubs, and with wildly beating hearts awaited the
onslaught of the ferocious animal.




CHAPTER XXIV

SWALLOWED UP BY THE BOG


The cougar quickly reached the screen of branches that Bobby had
arranged, and here he hesitated, not understanding the nature of this
obstacle. The tawny head was within two feet of the boys, and they found
themselves looking fairly into the wicked green eyes that glared at them
through the frail network of branches.

But the panther had little chance to solve the puzzle before him, for
with one accord the boys, wielding their clubs with a strength born of
desperation, rained blows upon his head. The cougar growled and spit
furiously, and struck viciously at them with wicked claws extended. But
he was at a disadvantage, for he could only use one paw, being forced to
cling to the tree with the others. For a few minutes he battled
furiously, and it seemed as though he would force his way past the
barrage of blows descending on him. One sweep of his paw caught Fred’s
club and tore it out of his grasp, and it was only by a tremendous
effort that Fred kept himself from following it to the ground. Then
Bobby, risking all on one blow, let go his hold on the branch, where he
had been steadying himself, stood up to his full height, and, grasping
his club in both hands, brought it down with tremendous force squarely
between the cougar’s eyes. Stunned and bleeding, the animal had received
all the punishment it could stand for the present, and, still spitting
furiously, it backed down the tree and leaped to the ground.

The boys were panting and well-nigh exhausted, but they still had
strength left for a cheer as they gazed down at their discomfited enemy.

“That was hot work while it lasted,” panted Fred. “If it hadn’t been for
that scheme of yours, Bobby, it would probably have been a different
story.”

“It did help some,” admitted Bobby. “But we’re not through with that
brute yet. You can see he’s working himself up to come after us again.”

“I’ve got to get another club,” said Fred, as he started hacking at a
stout branch with his knife. “I don’t know how I ever kept from falling
when he knocked that stick out of my hand.”

“It was lucky he connected with the club instead of with your hand,”
remarked Lee. “You’d better get that branch cut as quickly as you can.
That beast will be up here again inside of five minutes.”

“All right, I’m ready for him,” said Fred, as he cut through the last
tough fibre and found himself provided with a serviceable club. “We can
give him the same dose he got before.”

The cougar was still full of fight, and Fred had hardly regained his
position when the fierce brute came swarming up the tree again. But this
time he did not stop at the screen of branches, most of which had been
torn off in the previous struggle, and in spite of a staggering
fusillade of blows he managed to reach the crotch in which the boys were
standing.

“Out onto the branches, fellows!” yelled Lee. “It’s our only chance!”

Before the panther could get his balance and reach one of them, the boys
had scrambled out on three separate branches, leaving the cougar in
undisputed possession of their former vantage ground.

It was a breathless moment for all three, as they waited to see which
one the animal would attack first. The cougar himself seemed undecided
at first, glaring from one to the other, spitting and growling,
viciously. Then, perhaps because he had happened to choose the largest
branch, the ferocious beast started creeping toward Lee, his wicked
yellow eyes staring fixedly at his victim.

“Help me out, fellows, or I’m a goner!” cried the Southern lad
despairingly.

His friends had no intention of leaving him to his fate. Some three feet
above Lee’s branch were two others, almost parallel to it. Bobby and
Fred, both moved by the same thought, selected each a branch and crawled
cautiously out in the wake of the advancing cougar.

The latter was proceeding cautiously, for the branch bent and swayed
with his weight, and anyway, his prey seemed so securely within his
reach that he saw no cause for hurry. He was so intent on Lee that he
either did not notice the swaying of the branches over his head or else
thought it not worth noticing. Lee kept edging further and further out
on the branch, until at last the cougar, feeling it bend perilously
beneath him, paused a moment in his deadly progress. This was Bobby’s
and Fred’s opportunity, and they were not slow in taking advantage of
it. They poised their clubs a second, and then, at the same time,
brought them down full force on the wicked yellow head beneath them.

No panther that ever lived could withstand that crushing impact, and the
cougar went limp, lost his hold on the branch, and went crashing to the
ground, twenty feet below, where he lay twitching convulsively.

“Now’s our chance to make an end of this customer for once and all!”
yelled Bobby. “Come on down, fellows, and we’ll finish him this time.”

Lee hastily scrambled back from the end of the branch, and all three
boys slid down the trunk of the tree to where the cougar lay, still
stunned from the terrific blow and from its fall.

“Quick,” said Bobby, “grab hold of him, and we’ll throw him into that
big bog-hole we passed when we left the main path.”

“Right!” exclaimed Fred. “But we’ll have to act mighty quick. He’s apt
to come to life any second.”

It was all the boys could do to lift the big brute, but, with the
strength of desperation, they managed it somehow, and half carried, half
dragged, the unconscious panther to the slimy green pit that they had
almost tumbled into themselves while making for the tree. The pit was
surrounded by an expanse of treacherous quicksand, and into this they
shoved the cougar. The greedy quicksand received its victim with
avidity, drawing the cougar down and down into its slimy depths, until
with a dull sucking sound it closed over the bloodthirsty brute’s head.

The boys watched, fascinated, and almost found it in their hearts to
pity their late enemy. He was gone as completely as though he had never
existed, and the treacherous sand stretched out smooth and unbroken, not
a quiver on its surface to tell that it had added one more victim to its
already long list.

“Gee,” exclaimed Bobby with a shudder, “that’s a terrible way to die,
although that brute deserved all that was coming to him.”

“Well, it’s pretty certain that he won’t bother us any more,” remarked
Fred. “And I think we’re mighty lucky to be alive.”

“I’ll say so!” exclaimed Lee, fervently. “I gave myself up for lost when
I found myself out on that limb with the panther not ten feet away from
me. That was an awful wallop you fellows gave him.”

“A wallop in time saves nine,” misquoted Fred, with a grin.

“It probably saved the nine that the cougar was figuring on giving me,”
said Lee.

“Looks to me as though that wallop lost nine,” said Bobby, slyly.

“How do you make that out?” inquired Fred.

“Why, it lost that big cat’s nine lives, didn’t it?” inquired Bobby,
innocently.

“It certainly did,” admitted Lee, laughing, “and you can bet I was in a
position to appreciate it, too. The business end of that panther was
getting entirely too close to me for comfort.”

“Well,” said Fred, “it must be Bobby’s turn next to get in a tight
place. First I nearly get eaten up by an alligator, and then Lee pretty
near furnishes a hearty meal for a hungry cougar. What variety of
animals do you prefer, Bobby?”

“Oh, I’m not jealous of all the attention you fellows get,” returned
Bobby. “You can have your little pets and welcome.”

“How generous he is, Lee, isn’t he?” said Fred, sarcastically. “But
don’t forget the old saying, Bobby, that ‘he who laughs last,
irritates.’”

“That must be a mighty old saying, all right—so old that everybody’s
forgotten it but you,” said Bobby.

“That just goes to show what a fine memory I have,” retorted Fred.
“Whenever you can’t remember an old proverb, you try to make out that
there never was such a one. Your memory is nothing but a hole with no
bottom in it.”

“All right, pick on my memory all you want to,” grinned Bobby, “but
remember ‘it’s a long worm that has no turning.’”

“You fellows had better cut out all those fake proverbs and get down to
business,” warned Lee. “We’re just as far as ever from getting out of
this swamp, and we don’t even know where we’re going to get our next
meal. Why don’t you exercise your minds on this problem: when do we eat,
and if so, how?”

“You certainly start off with a terribly hard one,” said Fred. “Can’t
you think of anything easier than that, Lee?”

“I’m getting so hungry that I can’t think of anything else. It’s hours
since the last of those alligator eggs disappeared,” complained Lee.

“Then you shouldn’t have thrown the cougar into the quicksand,” retorted
Fred, “he might have made tough eating, but it would have been a lot
better than nothing.”

“I thought of that,” admitted Lee. “But I was more anxious to keep him
from eating me. Besides,” he added, “you and Bobby never thought of
anything but getting rid of him at that time either.”

“No use crying over spilt milk,” said Bobby, philosophically. “We’ll
have to move and trust to luck for something to eat.”

As neither of the others had anything better to suggest, they plodded
back to the path they had been following when they were so rudely
interrupted by the cougar. The haze had lightened considerably, and the
sun shone through with the appearance of a big red ball, enabling the
boys to pick their way for a short time, but then the haze settled down
thicker than ever, and they found themselves entirely at a loss. Their
only consolation was that the ground appeared to be getting steadily
higher and firmer, and they felt that they had left the worst of the bog
behind them. But the faint path they had been following grew less and
less distinct, and before they fairly realized it they were hopelessly
lost. For a time they stumbled on through a maze of vines and creepers
that grew steadily thicker, until at last they became practically
impassable. Then the boys were forced to call a halt, and they gazed at
each other questioningly.




CHAPTER XXV

THE HUNTER’S CABIN


Such a predicament would have discouraged older hearts than theirs. The
long wandering in the swamp, the fight with the alligator and then one
with the cougar, and after all to find themselves apparently no nearer
deliverance than when they started—it was a bitter pill to swallow.

But no one of the boys was of the kind that accepts defeat easily, and
after the first pang of something akin to despair had vanished, they
pulled themselves together and faced the situation bravely.

“We’re a long way from being licked yet,” declared Bobby. “We’ll have to
go back a way, and keep our eyes open for some sign of a path leading
off from the one we used to get here.”

“Yes, but if there had been, one, we’d probably have seen it as we came
along,” objected Fred.

“But on the other hand,” argued Bobby, “we didn’t know then that this
path would lead us into nothing at all, the way it has, and we weren’t
keeping such a sharp lookout for something better. At any rate, seeing
that we can’t fly over the tops of these trees, it seems to me that’s
our only chance.”

“Looks that way to me, too,” agreed Lee, “and the quicker we go the
better, because it’s going to get dark within another two hours.”

“All right, then,” said Bobby, decisively, “right about face, and we’ll
be on our way.”

They had gone about a mile, and were beginning to give up all hope of
ever getting out of their predicament, when suddenly Bobby came to an
abrupt halt.

Some ten feet off the narrow track they were on, stood two giant
boulders, close together, with hardly room between them for a grown man
to squeeze through. The boys had hardly noticed them when they had
passed them going in the other direction, but now Bobby’s keen young
eyes had seen some sign on one of them that caused his heart to leap. He
ran over to the larger of the two boulders to verify his discovery, and
there, sure enough, almost erased by the wind and weather but still
perfectly plain to keen eyes, was the outline of an arrow rudely daubed
on the face of the rock.

“But it seems to be pointing right between the rocks,” said Lee, as all
three boys bent over the faint outline.

“Sure it is,” said Bobby, excitedly, “and right between the rocks is
exactly where we’re going next,” and without further words he forced his
way through the bushes that choked the narrow gap between the rocks,
Fred and Lee following close at his heels.

Bobby glanced quickly about him, and was not long in finding what he
sought. There was a small semi-circle of gravel and shale at the back of
the boulders, and at the edge of this little clearing, faint but
unmistakable, was a narrow path leading into the dense undergrowth.

“Hooray!” shouted Bobby. “This is the first sign of anything promising
we’ve seen since Boolus stole our boat, and I’ll bet Meena’s crullers to
crocodile eggs that this path will lead us out to civilization.”

Fred and Lee were equally excited, and with renewed hope they entered
the narrow path and pressed forward, making little of the vines and
fallen tree trunks that retarded their progress.

Night was descending rapidly, and in the heavy woods it was almost dark
when, panting and spent, the three boys staggered out into a little
clearing, and before them could just make out the outlines of a rude log
cabin, almost covered by vines.

“Thank Heaven!” exclaimed Lee. “I was beginning to think we’d have to
spend another night in the swamp, and I’ve had enough of that to last me
some time.”

The others were hardly less relieved. The cabin at least would shelter
them and keep out marauders like the cougar, and they felt sure that in
the morning they would find a path leading from it to the outer world.

There was no sign of life about the cabin, and the door opened readily
enough when they raised the latch by which it was fastened. The interior
was pitch dark, but Bobby lit one of his few remaining matches, and by
its feeble light they peered about the little place.

“Here’s luck,” exclaimed Fred, and from a dusty shelf reached down one
of several long tallow candles. “Whoever left them there must have known
we’d be along and would need them.”

“Whoever left them there, did it a long while ago,” said Lee. “Look how
thick everything is with dust!”

“Well, you could hardly expect him to stay here and keep things clean
for us,” grinned Fred. “That’s asking too much, Lee.”

“Oh, I’m not kicking,” disclaimed Lee. “This place looks solid enough to
keep the rain out, and maybe if we look around we’ll find other things
besides the candles.”

“I’ve heard of Eskimos eating candles,” said Bobby, “and I’m pretty
nearly hungry enough to try one myself.”

“Well, you tried the alligator eggs first, so you ought to be willing to
sample these too,” said Fred.

“Maybe I will, at that,” said Bobby, “but not until I’ve made sure there
isn’t anything else to be had.”

“There seems to be a closet of some kind over there,” said Fred,
pointing to the opposite wall. “Let’s see what’s in it.”

“Probably nothing but a large amount of air,” said Lee, sceptically.

“Well, there’s only one way to find out, and that’s to look,” said Fred,
and, suiting the action to the word, he strode quickly across the room
and opened the door of the closet.

“Scubbity-yow!” yelled Fred. “Look at that, will you!”

Neatly ranged on shelves were cans of meat and vegetables, sufficient to
feed the boys for weeks, if the necessity arose.

“Gee!” exclaimed Bobby. “It doesn’t look as though we’d have to eat
candles yet awhile, does it?”

“I should say not,” said Lee, jubilantly. “And there’s a big pot in the
corner too,” he cried, a moment later. “I reckon whoever provisioned
this cabin must have intended to stay here a while.”

“Looks like it, all right,” agreed Bobby. “But let’s get busy and open
one or two of those cans. How would you fellows like some baked beans?”
he inquired, looking over the labels. “Think you could punish them in a
proper manner?”

“Lead us to it,” yelled Fred, and Lee rubbed his stomach in a most
expressive manner. Whoever had provided the food had been so far
neglectful as to forget the convenient can opener, but Bobby’s jacknife
proved a convenient substitute, and it did not take them long to get a
fire going in the rough grate that decorated one end of the little
cabin. As the odor of frying pork and beans filled the air, the boys
could hardly restrain themselves until they were heated through, and
when at length Bobby pronounced the feast ready, they fell on it like so
many wolves.




CHAPTER XXVI

A MIDNIGHT PROWLER


“Yum yum!” exclaimed Fred, “I’ve eaten lots of beans in my short
lifetime, but never any that tasted half as good as these.”

“They are just about what the doctor ordered,” conceded Bobby.

“And when we get through these, how would a nice can of peaches taste?”
put in Lee.

“Scubbity-yow!” shouted Fred. “Peaches, did you say? Say, I think I’d be
contented to spend the rest of my life here. Bobby, we certainly owe you
a vote of thanks for getting us here the way you did.”

“It was mostly luck,” disclaimed Bobby. “If I hadn’t happened to notice
that arrow on the rock we’d be wandering around in the cold, cold world
yet, probably.”

“Well, after all the hard luck we’ve had, I think we had a little good
luck coming to us,” said Lee.

“Looks as though we had it, for the time being, anyway,” replied Bobby,
as he sawed away at the can of peaches. “Here, you fellows pass your
cups and I’ll fill them up with something that will make your hair
curl.”

His friends were not slow in accepting this invitation, and they ate the
luscious fruit with an appreciation sharpened by the privations they had
been through. As Bobby remarked, “nobody knew how good things were until
they hadn’t been able to get them for awhile.”

“I don’t know about you energetic Indians,” said Lee, when he had
finished his peaches with a sigh, half of contentment and half of regret
that they were gone, “but I’m just going to lie on the floor in front of
that fire and loaf for awhile,” and suiting the action to the word, he
threw himself down full length on the floor.

“I don’t know how Bobby feels,” said Fred, stretching luxuriously, “but
I don’t think I’d mind a little rest myself. Most of that energy Lee’s
talking about seems to have oozed out of me, someway.”

“Same here,” admitted Bobby. “And it’s funny, too. Outside of fighting
alligators and panthers and ducking mudholes and quicksands, we haven’t
really been doing anything the last few days.”

“A little more of this,” remarked Fred, “and a football game will seem
quiet and restful. We’ll be going to sleep in the middle of it.”

“I don’t know about that,” said Bobby, “but I do know that it won’t be
very long before I get to sleep to-night.”

“I suppose that whoever owns this cabin won’t thank us for eating his
food,” went on Fred, as all three boys lay luxuriously at ease and gazed
into the radiant heart of the fire.

“If we ever get out of this wilderness, I’ll find out who the place
belongs to, and we’ll pay him for what we take,” said Lee; “I know if it
were mine, I wouldn’t grudge the food to any one who needed it as badly
as we did.”

“I wonder who _does_ own it,” speculated Bobby.

“I haven’t any idea,” admitted Lee, “but lots of the people around here
keep places like this for hunting, and I suppose that’s what it’s been
used for.”

“Nobody would have to hunt very long around here before he found
something, it seems to me,” said Bobby. “It seems as though it were the
other way around, and the animals come and hunt us.”

“Well, that doesn’t matter, as long as they don’t get us,” said Lee,
“and I guess we’re as safe in this cabin as we would be sleeping at
Rockledge.”

“Yes, or safer, in one way,” said Fred. “If the cabin should catch fire,
all we’d have to do would be to open the door and walk out, while when
the school caught fire we didn’t have it quite so easy.”

“That’s true enough,” agreed Bobby. “But while we’re talking of this
place being safe, I vote we fasten the door better than it is now.
There’s nothing but a latch holding it, and I’d feel safer it we could
make it a little more secure.”

“We might jam a chair against it,” suggested Fred, “the floor is pretty
uneven, and we could jam the chair in between one of the planks and the
door, so that an elephant would have a hard job getting in.”

“That’s certainly the way we want it,” said Lee, laughing. “The harder
it is to get that door open, the better I’ll sleep.”

“Wow!” exclaimed Fred, with a tremendous yawn. “Speaking of sleep, let’s
fix things up and go to sleep. I feel as though I could win the long
distance sleeping championship without half trying.”

“You’ll have to go some to beat me out,” laughed Bobby, scrambling to
his feet. “Let’s see if Fred’s plan to fasten the door will work.”

“Nothing surer in the world,” boasted Fred, “just watch me.”

Just in front of the door one floor board was warped so that it was
perhaps half an inch higher than those alongside it. The cabin was
equipped with three rude but very strong chairs, and seizing one of
these, Fred jammed it in between the door and the uneven board so that
any one or anything attempting to enter would have to tear up the floor
before it could gain admittance.

“There!” exclaimed Fred, stepping back to view his handiwork, “I guess
any one that wants to come in here now will have to ask our permission
first.”

The windows of the little cabin were small and criss-crossed with stout
scantlings, so there was no chance of any denizen of the woods making
them an unwelcome visit by means of that route. It was Lee who suggested
the only remaining possibility.

“I wonder if any friends of that cougar could get down the chimney,” he
speculated.

“We’ll soon see,” said Bobby, crossing over to the fireplace. He glanced
in under the hood that projected from the fireplace to keep the smoke
out of the room.

“I don’t think there’s any chance of that,” he stated. “The flue isn’t
more than eight or ten inches square, and anything that could get down
there couldn’t do us much damage. Besides, the fire will be going most
of the night, and I guess that would do the trick, even if the chimney
were four times as big as it is now.”

Reassured on this point, the boys threw more wood on the fire, for the
sake of light as well as warmth, and selected their bunks for the night.
There were four of these built against the wall opposite the fireplace,
and they were filled with twigs and dead leaves, making a comfortable
enough bed for those who were tired enough not to be particular about
where they slept.

“I guess there’s not much choice,” said Bobby, “so I’ll just tumble into
the one nearest me.” Which he proceeded forthwith to do. The others each
selected a bunk, and followed his example.

The fire crackling cheerily on the hearth made the cabin pleasantly
warm, and the boys were just dropping off to sleep when they were
suddenly brought back to wakefulness with a jerk by a stealthy
scratching sound at the door, followed by a low growl. For a few seconds
after this there was silence, and then the boys could hear the door
creak as some strong body pushed against it.

Thanks to the strong barricade against it, however, the stout door
defied the efforts of the would-be intruder, and the boys, sitting up in
their bunks with every sense alert, could hear the soft pad-pad of feet
encircling the cabin. Then there was a sudden fierce scrambling and
scratching, and the beast, whatever it was, was on the roof. It prowled
restlessly about, stopping every now and then to tear at the roof with
rasping claws. But the cabin was constructed in stout fashion, and was
not to be entered so easily.

“What do you suppose it can be, fellows?” questioned Lee in a low voice,
which trembled a little in spite of himself. “Do you think it can be
another cougar?”

“I wouldn’t be surprised,” whispered Bobby. “Maybe it’s the mate of the
one that we killed to-day. She may have tracked us to get revenge.”

“I’ll bet that’s just what it is!” cried Fred. “Suppose we had had to
sleep in the woods to-night. We’d be goners, sure.”

The others nodded, and they all three listened to see what the night
prowler would do next. The brute examined every foot of the roof, and
the boys could hear it sniffing suspiciously at the chimney. They
blessed the man who had constructed the cabin with such a wary eye for
such contingencies, and congratulated each other on being safe within
instead of out in the woods and practically at the mercy of the savage
brute.

The beast overhead finally seemed to come to the conclusion that it
could not get in from the roof, and it leaped to the ground and the boys
could hear it going away. For a long time they listened for it to come
back, but it did not, and at last, far away, they heard the same wild
scream they had heard while on the island in the swamp, but this time
there seemed to be a note of grief as well as ferocity in the cry. It
rose, cut wailingly through the darkness, and then died away.

For a long time the boys sat tense and expectant, not knowing at what
moment the beast might return. But as nothing further happened,
drowsiness at last overcame them, and after throwing a fresh supply of
fuel on the fire, they dropped off into deep slumber, from which they
were only awakened by a golden shaft of sunshine that pierced in through
one of the little windows.

“Gee,” said Bobby, sitting up and rubbing the sleep out of his eyes, “I
feel fit for anything now, and hungry enough to eat nails. It’s your
turn to cook, Fred. Hustle around and see if you can get breakfast as
well as I got supper last night.”

“Huh! I’ll show you what real cooking is like,” said Fred, leaping out
of his bunk. “What shall it be—humming-birds’ tongues or bird’s-nest
soup?”

“I think I’d rather have some bacon, if it’s all the same to you,” said
Bobby, with mock seriousness. “There’s a fresh jar of it in the closet.”

“Oh, well, if you’d rather have ordinary, everyday bacon,” said Fred,
“I’ll have to give it to you, I suppose,” and he soon had some
appetizing slices sizzling in the pan.

“That cougar last night seems like a bad dream now,” remarked Lee. “I
don’t mind admitting I felt mighty nervous while he was prowling
around.”

“I guess none of us exactly enjoyed it,” returned Bobby. “But it may not
have been a cougar at all. Maybe it was only a wildcat.”

“Possibly,” said Lee, doubtfully, and Fred terminated further discussion
at this point by serving out the crisp bacon, together with some
hardtack that he had fried in the grease. This was soon eaten, and after
Fred had been complimented on his cooking, the boys cautiously
unfastened the door, and, seeing no signs of the beast, whatever it was,
that had disturbed them the previous night, ventured forth to explore
their surroundings.




CHAPTER XXVII

THE MOCCASIN SNAKE


The hearty breakfast and the bright sunshine, added to the consciousness
that they had found a shelter to which they might retreat in case of
need put new zest into the boys, and they felt much more hopeful and
lighthearted than they had twenty-four hours earlier.

“Somehow I have a hunch that this is going to be a lucky day for us,”
remarked Bobby, as he led the way.

“Here’s hoping that you’re right,” said Lee. “We’re certainly about due
for a change in fortune. Poor mother!” he added, anxiety coming into his
eyes, “she must be worried to death. It’s safe to say she hasn’t slept a
wink since we’ve been gone. I’ve no doubt she has searching parties out
looking for us, but in this swamp they might hunt for days without
coming across us.”

“We’ll trust in Bobby’s hunch,” Fred encouraged him. “They’ve often come
out all right. I think he’s got a rabbit’s foot hidden about him
somewhere.”

“If I had, we’d been out of this swamp long before this,” laughed Bobby.
“Now,” he went on, “there’s one thing we’ve got to do, and it’s more
important than anything else. Wherever we go, we’ve got to know how to
find our way back to this cabin. In the first place, it’s the only safe
place to spend the night. Then the very fact it’s here shows that
parties come to it sometimes and we may have the luck of falling in with
them.”

“Yes,” said Fred, “that’s good advice. But how are we going to do it?”

“By using this,” replied Bobby, showing him a small hatchet that he had
fastened to his belt. “I found this in one corner of the cabin this
morning and I brought it along. We’ll chip off pieces of bark from the
trees as we go along and that will help us to find our way back.”

He illustrated this by slashing a bit of bark off a tree that they
happened to be passing.

“That’s bully,” said Lee, greatly relieved. “I was just worrying about
the chance of not being able to find our way back again.”

They went on, looking carefully for some sign of a trail, by following
which they might again reach the plantation and friends.

Soon they found themselves on marshier ground than that near the cabin,
and they turned in another direction to find better footing.

The ground was covered with rotting leaves and bits of broken branches.
Fred was picking his way, and was just about to step on what seemed to
be an unusually thick stick, about three feet long, when there was a
warning shout from Lee who was several feet in the rear.

“Look out, Fred!” he yelled. “It’s a snake, a moccasin!”

The warning came too late. Fred’s foot had already touched one end of
the seeming stick. Like lightning, an ugly head upreared at the other
end and struck savagely at the intruder.

“Run!” shouted Lee. “Run for your life!”

Fred obeyed and ran as fast as the marshy nature of the ground
permitted. The snake pursued him gliding through the tussocks, his
baleful eyes like two flaming points.

Bobby had turned at Lee’s cry, and in a moment had grasped the
situation. He had the hatchet in his hand and threw it with all his
might at the snake, that was now close on Fred’s heels. He had no time
to take careful aim, but by great good fortune the sharp blade struck
the reptile a little behind the neck. It stopped instantly and writhed
about, beating the ground and hissing horribly.

Lee in the meantime had picked up a club, and with a few blows from this
put an end to the snake. Then he and Bobby hurried to their comrade, who
had seated himself on the trunk of a fallen tree, pale and panting.

“Did he bite you, Fred?” cried Bobby, his heart convulsed with fear for
his chum.

“I’m afraid he did,” replied Fred, in a tone that he tried to keep firm.
“He gave an awful dig at my foot.”

In a moment Bobby was on his knees and was taking off Fred’s shoe. There
were tiny holes in it where the snake’s fangs had penetrated. The
stocking too was torn, and Bobby’s heart sank as he stripped it off.

But a great wave of thankfulness swept over him when he saw that the
skin was not broken. He looked it over most carefully, but there was not
even a scratch. By the narrowest of chances, Fred had escaped. His stout
shoe had saved him.

“You’re all right, old boy,” said Bobby, though his voice trembled.
“That snake came mighty near doing for you but didn’t quite make it.”

Fred almost collapsed as he realized that he was safe, for he had feared
the worst.

“If he had struck above the shoe top it would have been good-night,”
said Lee, who shared to the full the joy and relief of his friends.
“Those moccasins are the deadliest snakes of the South. People are more
afraid of them than of rattlesnakes. A rattlesnake will give warning,
but a moccasin never does. Then too a rattlesnake is only too glad to
get away from you if you will let him, but the moccasin will chase you,
just as this one did. My, but you had a narrow escape. The snake was
gaining on you and would have wound himself around your leg in another
minute and then it would have been all over with you.”

Bobby brought a little water from a pool near by and carefully washed
the stocking, scrubbing the shoe also, to remove any trace of the poison
that there might be on them. Then after they had partially dried, Fred
put them on and they all went over to look at the hideous reptile. It
lay perfectly still and there was no doubt that it was dead, but to make
assurance doubly sure, Bobby recovered his hatchet that lay a few feet
away and with one stroke struck off the moccasin’s head.

“Gee, he’s an ugly looking sinner,” murmured Fred.

“Sure is,” agreed his chums in unison.




CHAPTER XXVIII

A GREAT DISCOVERY


Now that the snake was certainly beyond the possibility of doing them
further harm, the boys could inspect it at their leisure. But even in
death the venomous reptile inspired them with horror. Fred shuddered as
he looked at him and thought of what might have been if the snake had
struck a little harder or had overtaken him in that desperate chase.

It was about a yard in length, and the body was strong and thick. The
short tail was provided with a row of shields and there was a horny
appendage at the end. The long triangular head had shallow pits on the
nose and the mouth was very wide. The color was a coppery brown and
there were reddish brown bands on the sides that became wider on the
lower end of the body, giving an appearance something like moccasins,
and from these the snake derived its name.

What the boys specially noticed was a white band that ran round the
creature’s mouth.

“That’s what gives it the other name it’s known by,” explained Lee.
“People call it the cotton mouth, because that white streak looks like
cotton.”

“It’s the ugliest thing I ever saw!” exclaimed Fred. “I only hope I
never see another. You bet that I’m going to watch my step for the rest
of the time we’re in this swamp.”

“Once we get out of this, you’re not likely to see one again,” Lee
assured him. “They’re mostly found in wet, marshy places and I’ve never
seen one on dry parts of the plantation. There are plenty of them in the
low-lying rice fields, and the darkeys stand in deadly fear of them.”

“I don’t blame them,” remarked Bobby. “But come now, fellows, let’s get
along. There’s nothing to keep us here any longer, unless,” he added
with a laugh, “Fred wants to take this fellow’s head along as a
souvenir.”

“Not on your life!” declared Fred emphatically. “I’ll see that head
often enough in my dreams as it is. Gee, Bobby,” he continued with a
sigh of relief, “it was a mighty lucky thing you had that hatchet along
with you.”

“And luckier yet that he threw it just right,” put in Lee. “That’s what
comes from being a good ball player. One learns how to throw.”

“Don’t give me any credit for that,” protested Bobby. “I might just as
well have hit him with the handle instead of the blade. Luck sure was
with us.”

They left the loathsome reptile and made their way to higher ground,
picking their steps with exceeding care and avoiding as they would the
plague anything that looked like a thick stick.

Bobby was going ahead as fast as the tangled vines and shrubbery would
let him, when he gave an exclamation and fell to his knees.

“What’s the matter?” asked his companions in alarm, running up to him.

“Stubbed my toe on something hard,” explained Bobby, rising to his feet
and brushing himself off, “and barked my shins in the bargain as I went
down. Kicked against a stone, I imagine.”

“That’s funny,” said Lee. “There are mighty few stones around here. It
must have been a stump.”

“Well, it doesn’t matter much,” replied Bobby. “It brought me down all
right, whether it was wood or stone. But just for curiosity, I’m going
to find out.”

He kicked away the grass and twigs and bent down to look.

“Why, that’s queer!” he exclaimed. “It’s stone, as I thought, but it
isn’t a rock. It’s been shaped with a chisel and it looks as though it
had figures or letters on it.”

“How on earth did a thing like that get here?” asked Fred, in a puzzled
tone.

“I can make out something like the letter C,” said Bobby. “C-A-R-T——why,
Lee, I believe it’s your name!”

The next instant he leaped to his feet, as the full significance of his
discovery flashed upon him.

“Hurrah!” he shouted. “Glory hallelujah! Lee, we’ve found one of the
boundary stones of your mother’s property.”

“What?” cried Lee, all a-tremble with excitement.

“Are you sure?” queried Fred, dropping on hands and knees beside his
friend.

“It sure looks like it,” affirmed Bobby, digging away like mad to
uncover more of the stone.

The others followed his example and made the dirt fly, for all the
world, as Fred said afterward, “like dogs digging out a woodchuck.”

A few minutes of hard work, and enough of the stone was uncovered to
permit them to make out the inscription. It was time-stained and
weatherbeaten, but read as follows:

  S.E. _Limit of property of_ N. CARTIER, _Laboulaye Parish, La._

Then followed some surveyor’s signs and symbols, which to the boys were
like so much Greek. Underneath these however was an arrow pointing in a
certain direction, and Bobby studied this for several minutes with great
attention.

“What do you make of it?” asked Fred curiously, as he noted his friend’s
puckered brow.

“This arrow means something,” replied Bobby, “and I think we’d better
follow in the direction in which it points. I tell you what we do. You
stand here, Fred, and Lee and I will follow the line of the arrow. If
you see us getting out of line, you wave to us and set us right.”

This was agreed to, and Bobby and Lee set out. They had gone a distance
of perhaps two hundred yards, when Bobby’s keen eyes saw a rim of stone
just projecting above the ground. They cleared away the moss and rubbish
about it and found that it was another landmark, practically the same as
the first, except that in this case the arrow pointed slightly in
another direction, showing that the boundary line veered at that point.

They shouted to Fred and he quickly rejoined them.

“Now,” said Bobby jubilantly, “the rest will be easy. All we’ve got to
do is to report the location of these two stones and a surveying party
can go from stone to stone and so trace out the whole boundary line of
the property.”

“Look!” exclaimed Fred suddenly, pointing to the right.

They looked and saw a figure just vanishing behind a tree.




CHAPTER XXIX

’RASTUS ABIMELECH BELSHAZZAR JOHNSON


“Who can that be?” asked Fred, as the startled boys focused their eyes
on the tree.

“Search me,” replied Bobby. “But whoever it is, we want to talk to him
right away. It isn’t likely he intends any harm, and maybe he’ll know a
way to get out of this swamp.”

“More likely he’s lost in it, just the same as ourselves,” conjectured
Fred, but followed Bobby and Lee who had already started in the
direction of the tree.

When they were within twenty feet of it, they halted.

“Hello there!” sang out Bobby. “Come out from behind that tree, please.
We want to talk to you.”

A woolly head peered cautiously around the side of the tree and then a
diminutive darkey boy appeared in full view.

Recognition on both sides was instantaneous.

“Why,” cried Lee, “that’s the boy who fell overboard on the way down
from New York, the one that Bobby saved by throwing him the life
preserver!”

“The one with the long name!” exclaimed Fred. “Let’s see, it was—”

“’Rastus Abimelech Belshazzar Johnson,” finished the little darkey
proudly, with a grin that showed all his white teeth. “An’ Ah sure am
spifflicated to meet all you young gem’mun agin, speshul dis one what
saved mah life,” indicating Bobby.

“Maybe you can do the same for us now,” said Bobby. “We’re lost in this
swamp. Do you know the way out?”

“Ah sho will,” replied ’Rastus, and a moment flash of his gleaming
ivories. “Ah wuz bo’n an’ brung up only a few miles fum heah. Reckon Ah
cud fin’ mah way fru dis yeah swamp wiv mah eyes shet.”

This was indeed good news to the boys, who felt as if a thousand tons
had been lifted from their hearts.

“Fac’ is,” continued ’Rastus, “Ah cum along wiv a pahty what wuz lookin’
fur you-all. Dey’s only a little way fum heah, an’ Ah specs Ah’d better
go an’ info’mation dem dat you-all ez heah.”

“You bet you would,” cried Lee. “Hurry up, ’Rastus, and you’ll find that
this was the best day’s work you ever did.”

“’Rastus is going to be our Moses to lead us out of the wilderness,”
cried Fred gleefully.

“Mah name ain’t Moses,” replied their deliverer. “It am ’Rastus
Abimelech Belshazzar Johnson.”

“And a mighty good name it is,” said Bobby, “and one that we’ll always
remember. But now let’s see how quick you’ll be in finding the other
people and bringing them here.”

“Ah sho will,” replied ’Rastus, and a moment later he had vanished like
a shadow among the vines and tree trunks.

“Thank heaven,” cried Lee as they looked after his retreating figure.
“Before night we’ll all be back in the home that I began to fear we’d
never see again.”

“It’s glorious,” agreed Bobby, “but after all, perhaps it’s all for the
best that we’ve had to stay in the swamp as long as we have. If help had
come yesterday, for instance, we wouldn’t have found the boundary
stones. That’s paid us for all the trouble and danger we’ve been
through.”

In a few minutes they heard the sound of voices, and soon a party of
four men came in sight, with ’Rastus Abimelech Belshazzar Johnson
proudly leading the way.

There were broad smiles on their faces as the boys rushed forward to
meet them and it was hard to tell which group was the more delighted.
All talked together, and there was a general hubbub until the excitement
quieted down a little.

The leader of the party was a Mr. Lanfranc, the Parish Clerk of that
section, a big, bluff, genial man, who was a great friend of the Cartier
family.

“I can’t tell you how relieved we are to find you boys,” he said, as he
slapped Lee affectionately on the shoulder. “We’ve been beating the
swamp for you for the last two days. But it covers so many miles of
territory that it’s almost like looking for a needle in a haystack. But
thank God that we’ve found you at last, alive and well. Your poor mother
has been almost crazy about you. Here, ’Rastus,” he continued, turning
to the little darkey who stood by, all smiles and swelling with a sense
of his importance, “you go right away to the Cartier place and tell Mrs.
Cartier that we’ve found the boys, that they’re all right, and that
we’ll be home before night.”

With another flash of his white teeth, ’Rastus was off on his errand.

“We’d go right away,” explained Mr. Lanfranc to Lee, “only we have a
rendezvous with another party to meet them at noon only a little way
from here. As soon as they know you’ve been found we’ll have a bit of
lunch and then we’ll all make tracks for home. But how did it come about
that you got lost?” he continued. “I understand you went away in the
motor boat. What became of that?”

“Jim Boolus stole it from us,” replied Lee.

“What!” cried Mr. Lanfranc.

He listened while Lee told him of the confession they had extorted from
the negro boy who had acted as the tool of Boolus, and his face grew
dark with wrath, that was reflected on those of the other members of the
party.

“The old scoundrel!” he exclaimed. “That caps the climax. For a long
time he’s been the bane of this parish. But up to now he’s been so
cunning that the law has had no chance to get a grip on him. But this
time he’s overreached himself, and the minute we can lay our hands on
him we’ll clap him in jail. It will be a double satisfaction to do that,
because of the way he’s been trying to get your mother’s property away
from her. I’m afraid he may do that yet.”

“No, he won’t!” cried Lee jubilantly. “We’ve found the boundary stones
of the property!”




CHAPTER XXX

JIM BOOLUS TRAPPED


“Say that again,” cried Mr. Lanfranc, delight and incredulity struggling
for the mastery.

“Sure as shooting,” affirmed Lee with a happy laugh. “It isn’t more than
an hour ago that we came across them. Come here and I’ll show them to
you.”

The whole party hurried to the precious memorials and examined them
closely. The Parish Clerk was skilled in such matters, which came within
the duties of his office, and he confirmed the belief of the boys that
these were the only things necessary to make Mrs. Cartier’s title to the
property absolutely secure.

“This has been a great day,” he said, as he rose from his knees after
making notes of the inscriptions on the stones, “not only because we
have found you boys, but because we’ve been able to put a crimp in the
plans of the greatest rascal in this part of the parish. It was a clever
thing, by the way, that you boys caught on to the meaning of these
boundary stones.”

“Oh, as for that,” said Lee generously, “all the praise must go to Bobby
here. He was the one that figured it all out.”

“Some boy,” said Mr. Lanfranc approvingly, and Bobby flushed to his
ears.

“It’s a queer coincidence,” continued Mr. Lanfranc, “that we ran across
Boolus, accompanied by one of his negroes, in another part of the swamp,
no later than yesterday. He said that he was out hunting, but I didn’t
see that he had any gun. But here come the other fellows,” he added, as
he caught sight of a party of three coming into view, “and as it is
pretty near noon, I guess we’ll have our lunch right now and hurry back
home. I can imagine how impatient Mrs. Cartier will be to have you with
her as soon as possible.”

The newcomers were quite as delighted as the first party had been, to
learn that the missing ones were found and that their anxious search was
ended. They chose a spot on higher ground in a clump of trees, and set
to work on the abundant lunch with which they were provided. The boys,
with their minds free for the first time in days, thought it was the
most delicious repast they had ever tasted.

They had not quite finished when Bobby caught sight of two figures at
the edge of a fringe of trees some distance away.

“Here come two other men,” he announced.

“Is that so?” said Mr. Lanfranc with some curiosity. “I wonder who they
are. Hunters I suppose.”

“No,” cried Lee, who had been studying them closely. “It’s Jim Boolus
and that darkey of his.”

“So it is,” confirmed Mr. Lanfranc, after another look. “Lie down flat,
all of you. I’m curious to see what the old rascal is up to.”

They stretched themselves flat on the ground and looked through the
bushes at the approaching couple.

All unconscious of the scrutiny, they came on, Boolus in the van, his
eyes scanning the ground as they advanced.

Suddenly he caught sight of one of the boundary stones, which, having
been largely uncovered during the investigation of the markings were now
in plain sight. With an exclamation of satisfaction, he hurried toward
it, and fell on his knees to look at it closely. Then he rose to his
feet and rubbed his hands together in glee.

He beckoned to the colored youth, talked to him for a minute or two and
then both set to work digging about the stone, using some implements
that the attendant had brought with him.

“What are they after?” asked Fred in a whisper.

“I know very well what they are after,” replied Mr. Lanfranc in a low
tone that held grimness in it. “He’s hanging himself with his own rope.”

The couple worked hard for perhaps a quarter of an hour, and then with
great effort dragged the heavy stone out of its hole and laid it on the
grass. Then after resting a moment each took one end, and half carrying,
half dragging it, moved toward the edge of a bog that lay twenty yards
away.

“Halt!” shouted Mr. Lanfranc, and at the same moment the whole party
rose to their feet and poured out from among the trees.

At the sudden command, Boolus and his helper dropped the stone as though
they had been shot. In a moment the members of the party were upon them.
The negro started to run, but one of the men caught him and dragged him
back by the collar.

“So, Jim Boolus,” said Mr. Lanfranc, “you robber of widows and orphans,
we’ve caught you at last. You’ve kept out of the grip of the law for a
long time, but it’s got you now. The evidence is so clear that the jury
will convict you without leaving the box. You stole the boat of these
boys and left them to starve and die, for all you cared—”

“I didn’t,” denied Boolus, “and you can’t prove it.”

“This boy has confessed that he did it at your direction,” declared Mr.
Lanfranc, indicating the negro.

“You don’t suppose a jury would take the word of a negro against that of
a white man, do you?” replied Boolus, who thought he saw a ray of hope.

“Against such a white man as they know you to be, I think they would,”
answered Mr. Lanfranc. “But let that pass. Just now, all of us have seen
you commit a crime. Two minutes more and that stone would have been
swallowed up in the bog. The removal of boundary marks is a serious
crime and a state prison offense. You’re due for a good long time behind
the bars, Jim Boolus. Come along now,” he commanded, cutting short
abruptly the mumbling appeals for mercy that the detected wretch was
beginning.

The whole party took up the march, and in a few hours reached the
nearest town, where Jim Boolus was committed to the charge of the
sheriff, who took him to the jail. There he stayed until, a few weeks
later, he began his long prison term.

The boys hurried at once to the plantation, where Lee flew to his
mother’s arms. She hugged and cried over him, as mothers do, and then
Bobby and Fred came in for a welcome scarcely less warm. It was a
glorious reunion and one of the happiest occasions that the boys had
ever known.

“Do you remember what I said about a hunch this morning?” Bobby asked
Fred, when, at the end of that jubilant day, they were getting ready for
bed.

“Yes,” agreed Fred, “your hunch was right. It sure has been our lucky
day!”

“And to think we found those boundary stones,” put in Lee. “That’s the
best ever. My mother will want to thank you for that—when she gets over
all this excitement over our return.”

“Gee, but we’ll have a story to tell, when we get back to Rockledge,”
was Fred’s comment. “Lost in a swamp, and fighting a cougar, and a
moccasin snake, and sinking in the mush—”

“They won’t believe the half of it,” added Bobby. “It sure was a lot of
adventures!”

“Well, now you’ve got to settle down to good times on the plantation,”
said Lee.

“I wonder if we’ll get back that motor boat,” cried Bobby, suddenly.

“I don’t know,” answered the Southern boy. But it may be added that the
boat had already been found and was returned to the Cartiers the next
day.

Delightful days on the plantation followed. The boys avoided the big
swamp, but they visited the cotton and the rice fields, and had the best
of times.

“And now, back to school!” sang out Bobby one day, and here, getting
ready to return to Rockledge, we will leave the lads.

THE END




This Isn’t All!

Would you like to know what became of the good friends you have made
in this book?

Would you like to read other stories continuing their adventures and
experiences, or other books quite as entertaining by the same author?

On the _reverse side_ of the wrapper which comes with this book, you
will find a wonderful list of stories which you can buy at the same
store where you got this book.

Don’t throw away the Wrapper

Use it as a handy catalog of the books you want some day to have.
But in case you do mislay it, write to the Publishers for a
complete catalog.




THE HARDY BOYS SERIES

By FRANKLIN W. DIXON

Illustrated. Every Volume Complete in Itself

  THE HARDY BOYS are sons of a celebrated American detective, and
  during vacations and their off time from school they help their
  father by hunting down clues themselves.

  THE TOWER TREASURE—A dying criminal confessed that his loot had been
  secreted “in the tower.” It remained for the Hardy Boys to make an
  astonishing discovery that cleared up the mystery.

  THE HOUSE ON THE CLIFF—The house had been vacant and was supposed to
  be haunted. Mr. Hardy started to investigate—and disappeared! An odd
  tale, with plenty of excitement.

  THE SECRET OF THE OLD MILL—Counterfeit money was in circulation, and
  the limit was reached when Mrs. Hardy took some from a stranger. A
  tale full of thrills.

  THE MISSING CHUMS—Two of the Hardy Boys’ chums take a motor trip
  down the coast. They disappear and are almost rescued by their
  friends when all are captured. A thrilling story of adventure.

  HUNTING FOR HIDDEN GOLD—Mr. Hardy is injured in tracing some stolen
  gold. A hunt by the boys leads to an abandoned mine, and there
  things start to happen. A western story all boys will enjoy.

  THE SHORE ROAD MYSTERY—Automobiles were disappearing most
  mysteriously from the Shore Road. It remained for the Hardy Boys to
  solve the mystery.

  THE SECRET OF THE CAVES—When the boys reached the caves they came
  unexpectedly upon a queer old hermit.

  THE MYSTERY OF CABIN ISLAND—A story of queer adventures on a
  rockbound island.

  THE GREAT AIRPORT MYSTERY—The Hardy Boys solve the mystery of the
  disappearance of some valuable mail.

  WHAT HAPPENED AT MIDNIGHT—The boys follow a trail that ends in a
  strange and exciting situation.

  WHILE THE CLOCK TICKED—The Hardy Boys aid in vindicating a man who
  has been wrongly accused of a crime.

GROSSET & DUNLAP, _Publishers_, NEW YORK




TED SCOTT FLYING STORIES

By FRANKLIN W. DIXON

Illustrated. Each Volume Complete in Itself.

No subject has so thoroughly caught the imagination of young
America as aviation. This series has been inspired by recent daring
feats of the air, and is dedicated to Lindbergh, Byrd, Chamberlin
and other heroes of the skies.

  OVER THE OCEAN TO PARIS;
    or, Ted Scott’s Daring Long Distance Flight.

  RESCUED IN THE CLOUDS;
    or, Ted Scott, Hero of the Air.

  OVER THE ROCKIES WITH THE AIR MAIL;
    or, Ted Scott, Lost in the Wilderness.

  FIRST STOP HONOLULU;
    or, Ted Scott Over the Pacific.

  THE SEARCH FOR THE LOST FLYERS;
    or, Ted Scott Over the West Indies.

  SOUTH OF THE RIO GRANDE;
    or, Ted Scott On a Secret Mission.

  ACROSS THE PACIFIC;
    or, Ted Scott’s Hop to Australia.

  THE LONE EAGLE OF THE BORDER;
    or, Ted Scott and the Diamond Smugglers.

  FLYING AGAINST TIME;
    or, Breaking the Ocean to Ocean Record.

  OVER THE JUNGLE TRAILS;
    or, Ted Scott and the Missing Explorers.

  LOST AT THE SOUTH POLE;
    or, Ted Scott in Blizzard Land.

  THROUGH THE AIR TO ALASKA;
    or, Ted Scott’s Search in Nugget Valley.

  FLYING TO THE RESCUE;
    or, Ted Scott and the Big Dirigible.

  DANGER TRAILS OF THE SKY;
    or, Ted Scott’s Great Mountain Climb.

  FOLLOWING THE SUN SHADOW;
    or, Ted Scott and the Great Eclipse.


GROSSET & DUNLAP, _Publishers_, NEW YORK




THE REX LEE FLYING STORIES

By THOMSON BURTIS

Illustrated. Every Volume Complete in Itself.

The author of this series of exciting flying stories is an experienced
aviator. He says, “During my five years in the army I performed nearly
every sort of flying duty—instructor, test pilot, bombing, photographing
pilot, etc., in every variety of ship, from tiny scout planes to the
gigantic three-motored Italian Caproni.”

Not only has this author had many experiences as a flyer; a list of his
activities while knocking around the country includes postal clerk,
hobo, actor, writer, mutton chop salesman, preacher, roughneck in the
oil fields, newspaper man, flyer, scenario writer in Hollywood and
synthetic clown with the Sells Floto Circus. Having lived an active,
daring life, and possessing a gift for good story telling, he is well
qualified to write these adventures of a red-blooded dare-devil young
American who became one of the country’s greatest flyers.

  REX LEE; GYPSY FLYER
  REX LEE; ON THE BORDER PATROL
  REX LEE; RANGER OF THE SKY
  REX LEE; SKY TRAILER
  REX LEE; ACE OF THE AIR MAIL
  REX LEE; NIGHT FLYER
  REX LEE’S MYSTERIOUS FLIGHT
  REX LEE; ROUGH RIDER OF THE AIR
  REX LEE; AERIAL ACROBAT
  REX LEE; TRAILING AIR BANDITS
  REX LEE; FLYING DETECTIVE

GROSSET & DUNLAP, _Publishers_, NEW YORK




FLYING STORIES FOR BOYS

IN THE AIR WITH ANDY LANE

By EUSTACE L. ADAMS

Illustrated. Every Volume Complete in Itself.

Mr. Adams, the author of this flying series for boys is an experienced
aviator and has had many thrilling adventures in the air—both as a
member of the famous Lafayette Escadrille in the World War and in the
United States Naval Aviation Service flying with the squadrons
patrolling the Atlantic Coast. His stories reveal not only his ability
to tell daring and exciting air episodes but also his first hand
knowledge of modern aeroplanes and the marvelous technical
improvements which have been made in the past few years. Andy Lane
flies the latest and most highly developed machines in the field of
aviation.

  FIFTEEN DAYS IN THE AIR
  OVER THE POLAR ICE
  RACING ROUND THE WORLD
  THE RUNAWAY AIRSHIP
  PIRATES OF THE AIR
  ON THE WINGS OF FLAME
  THE MYSTERIOUS MONOPLANE
  THE FLYING WINDMILL
  THE PLANE WITHOUT A PILOT
  WINGS OF ADVENTURE
  ACROSS THE TOP OF THE WORLD
  PRISONERS OF THE CLOUDS

GROSSET & DUNLAP, _Publishers_, NEW YORK




BUDDY BOOKS FOR BOYS

Illustrated. Individual Colored Wrappers.

Tales of Western pioneer days and the California gold fields; tales of
mystery, humor, adventure; thrilling stories of sports and aviation.
There is a wide range of subjects in this list of titles—all by
well-known authors of books for boys.

  HOT DOG PARTNERS, By William Heyliger
  YOUNG EAGLE OF THE TRAIL, By J. Allan Dunn
  THE LAND OF MONSTERS, By Harold M. Sherman
  QUARTERBACK HOTHEAD, By William Heyliger
  LEFTY LEIGHTON, By Percy Keese Fitzhugh
  NUMBER 44, By Harold M. Sherman
  BILL DARROW’S VICTORY, By William Heyliger
  THE STORY OF TERRIBLE TERRY, By Percy Keese Fitzhugh
  BEYOND THE DOG’S NOSE, By Harold M. Sherman
  DING PALMER, AIR DETECTIVE, By Harold M. Sherman
  BEAN-BALL BILL, By William Heyliger
  CAMERON MacBAIN, BACKWOODSMAN, By Harold M. Sherman
  FLYING HEELS, By Harold M. Sherman
  FLASHING STEEL, By Harold M. Sherman
  BUFFALO BOY, By J. Allan Dunn
  THE CLOUD PATROL, By Irving Crump
  SPIFFY HENSHAW, By Percy Keese Fitzhugh
  THE PILOT OF THE CLOUD PATROL, By Irving Crump
  DON RADER, TRAIL BLAZER, By Harold M. Sherman
  TUCK SIMMS, FORTY-NINER, By Edward Leonard
  WIGWAG WEIGAND, By Percy Keese Fitzhugh
  HERVEY WILLETTS, By Percy Keese Fitzhugh
  SKINNY McCORD, By Percy Keese Fitzhugh

GROSSET & DUNLAP, _Publishers_, NEW YORK




GREAT SPORT STORIES

For Every Sport Season

By HAROLD M. SHERMAN

Here’s an author who knows his sports from having played them.
Baseball, football, basketball, ice hockey, tennis, track—they’re all
the same to Harold M. Sherman. He puts the most thrilling moments of
these sports into his tales. Mr. Sherman is to-day’s most popular
writer of sport stories—all of which are crowded with action, suspense
and clean, vigorous fun.

  The Home Run Series

    Bases Full!
    Hit by Pitcher
    Safe!
    Hit and Run
    Double Play
    Batter Up!

  The Basketball Series

    Mayfield’s Fighting Five
    Get ’Em Mayfield
    Shoot That Ball!

  The Gridiron Series

    Goal to Go
    Hold That Line!
    Touchdown
    Block That Kick!
    One Minute to Play
    Fight ’Em, Big Three

  The Ice Hockey Series

    Flashing Steel
    Flying Heels
    Slashing Sticks

  Other Stories of Sport and Adventure

    The Land of Monsters
    Beyond the Dog’s Nose
    Cameron McBain Backwoodsman
    Ding Palmer Air Detective
    Don Rader, Trail Blazer
    No. 44

GROSSET & DUNLAP, _Publishers_, NEW YORK




WESTERN STORIES FOR BOYS

By JAMES CODY FERRIS

Each Volume Complete in Itself.

Thrilling tales of the great west, told primarily for boys but which
will be read by all who love mystery, rapid action, and adventures in
the great open spaces.

The Manly boys, Roy and Teddy, are the sons of an old ranchman, the
owner of many thousands of heads of cattle. The lads know how to ride,
how to shoot, and how to take care of themselves under any and all
circumstances.

The cowboys of the X Bar X Ranch are real cowboys, on the job when
required, but full of fun and daring—a bunch any reader will be
delighted to know.

  THE X BAR X BOYS ON THE RANCH
  THE X BAR X BOYS IN THUNDER CANYON
  THE X BAR X BOYS ON WHIRLPOOL RIVER
  THE X BAR X BOYS ON BIG BISON TRAIL
  THE X BAR X BOYS AT THE ROUND-UP
  THE X BAR X BOYS AT NUGGET CAMP
  THE X BAR X BOYS AT RUSTLER’S GAP
  THE X BAR X BOYS AT GRIZZLY PASS
  THE X BAR X BOYS LOST IN THE ROCKIES
  THE X BAR X BOYS RIDING FOR LIFE
  THE X BAR X BOYS IN SMOKY VALLEY

GROSSET & DUNLAP, _Publishers_, NEW YORK




BOOKS BY LEO EDWARDS

Illustrated. Every Volume Complete in Itself.

Hundreds of thousands of boys who laughed until their sides ached over
the weird and wonderful adventures of Jerry Todd and his gang demanded
that Leo Edwards, the author, give them more books with belt-bursting
laughs and creepy shivers. So he took Poppy Ott, Jerry Todd’s bosom
chum and created the Poppy Ott series. Now there are two more series,
The Andy Blake and the Trigger Berg—and if such a thing is
possible—they are even more full of fun and excitement than the Jerry
Todds.

  THE JERRY TODD BOOKS

  JERRY TODD AND THE WHISPERING MUMMY
  JERRY TODD AND THE ROSE COLORED CAT
  JERRY TODD AND THE OAK ISLAND TREASURE
  JERRY TODD AND THE WALTZING HEN
  JERRY TODD AND THE TALKING FROG
  JERRY TODD AND THE PURRING EGG
  JERRY TODD IN THE WHISPERING CAVE
  JERRY TODD, PIRATE
  JERRY TODD AND THE BOB-TAILED ELEPHANT
  JERRY TODD, EDITOR-IN-GRIEF
  JERRY TODD, CAVEMAN

  THE POPPY OTT BOOKS

  POPPY OTT AND THE STUTTERING PARROT
  POPPY OTT AND THE SEVEN LEAGUE STILTS
  POPPY OTT AND THE GALLOPING SNAIL
  POPPY OTT’S PEDIGREED PICKLES
  POPPY OTT AND THE FRECKLED GOLDFISH
  POPPY OTT AND THE TITTERING TOTEM
  POPPY OTT AND THE PRANCING PANCAKE

  THE ANDY BLAKE BOOKS

  ANDY BLAKE
  ANDY BLAKE’S COMET COASTER
  ANDY BLAKE’S SECRET SERVICE
  ANDY BLAKE AND THE POT OF GOLD

  THE TRIGGER BERG BOOKS

  TRIGGER BERG AND THE TREASURE TREE
  TRIGGER BERG AND 700 MOUSETRAPS
  TRIGGER BERG AND THE SACRED PIG

  THE TUFFY BEAN BOOKS

  TUFFY BEAN’S PUPPY DAYS
  TUFFY BEAN’S ONE RING CIRCUS
  TUFFY BEAN AT FUNNY-BONE FARM
  TUFFY BEAN AND THE LOST FORTUNE

GROSSET & DUNLAP, _Publishers_, NEW YORK




THE WESTY MARTIN BOOKS

By PERCY KEESE FITZHUGH

Author of the Tom Slade and Roy Blakeley Books, Etc.

Illustrated. Every Volume Complete in Itself.

Westy Martin, known to every friend of Roy Blakeley, appears as the
hero of these adventures. As a scout in Bridgeboro and Temple Camp he
has learned the rudiments of scoutcraft. Now as an Eagle scout you can
follow him along new trails and among new adventures. How he became
the companion of an old trapper on a trip into the heart of the
Rockies, how he followed an old Indian trail, how he explored the vast
spaces of the old Sante Fe Trail, and later was plunged into the
dramatic events of the Mississippi flood, is told in these stories
teeming with action and thrills.

  WESTY MARTIN
  WESTY MARTIN IN THE YELLOWSTONE
  WESTY MARTIN IN THE ROCKIES
  WESTY MARTIN ON THE SANTE FE TRAIL
  WESTY MARTIN ON THE OLD INDIAN TRAIL
  WESTY MARTIN IN THE LAND OF THE PURPLE SAGE
  WESTY MARTIN ON THE MISSISSIPPI
  WESTY MARTIN IN THE SIERRAS

GROSSET & DUNLAP, _Publishers_, NEW YORK





End of Project Gutenberg's Bobby Blake on a Plantation, by Frank A. Warner

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BOBBY BLAKE ON A PLANTATION ***

***** This file should be named 47553-0.txt or 47553-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/4/7/5/5/47553/

Produced by Roger Frank and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
  www.gutenberg.org/license.


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at 809
North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887.  Email
contact links and up to date contact information can be found at the
Foundation's web site and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit:  www.gutenberg.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For forty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

