The Project Gutenberg eBook, Lost in the Atlantic Valley, by Luis Senarens


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions 
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at 
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.




Title: Lost in the Atlantic Valley
       Or, Frank Reade, Jr., and His Wonder, the "Dart"


Author: Luis Senarens



Release Date: November 27, 2017  [eBook #56058]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8


***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LOST IN THE ATLANTIC VALLEY***


E-text prepared by Richard Tonsing and the Online Distributed Proofreading
Team (http://www.pgdp.net) from page images generously made available by
Internet Archive (https://archive.org)



Note: Project Gutenberg also has an HTML version of this
      file which includes the original illustrations.
      See 56058-h.htm or 56058-h.zip:
      (http://www.gutenberg.org/files/56058/56058-h/56058-h.htm)
      or
      (http://www.gutenberg.org/files/56058/56058-h.zip)


      Images of the original pages are available through
      Internet Archive. See
      https://archive.org/details/FrankReadeweekl00SenaJ


Transcriber’s note:

      Text enclosed by underscores is in italics (_italics_).

      Text enclosed by equal signs is in bold face (=bold=).





[Illustration: FRANK READE WEEKLY MAGAZINE Containing Stories of
Adventures on Land, Sea & in the Air]

  _Issued Weekly—By Subscription $2.50 per year. Application made for
               Second-Class Entry at N. Y. Post-Office._
 No. 35.                NEW YORK, JUNE 26, 1903.         Price 5 Cents.

[Illustration]

                   It did not take the professor long
                  to get to work with his hammer. In a
                   very short time he had chipped off
                    enough of the quartz to reveal a
                  curious yellow vein, which seemed to
                   extend an indefinite distance into
                               the ledge.




                              FRANK READE

                            WEEKLY MAGAZINE.

     CONTAINING STORIES OF ADVENTURES ON LAND, SEA AND IN THE AIR.

  _Issued Weekly—By Subscription $2.50 per year. Application made for
    Second Class entry at the New York, N. Y., Post Office. Entered
  according to Act of Congress in the year 1903, in the office of the
  Librarian of Congress, Washington, D. C., by Frank Tousey, 24 Union
                           Square, New York._

 =No. 35.=              NEW YORK, JUNE 26, 1903.       =Price 5 Cents.=




                      Lost in the Atlantic Valley;
                                  OR,
             FRANK READE, JR., AND HIS WONDER, THE “DART.”


                              By “NONAME.”




                                CONTENTS


 CHAPTER    I. WHICH INTRODUCES OUR CHARACTERS AND THE SUBMARINE BOAT.
 CHAPTER   II. THE EXPEDITION STARTS.
 CHAPTER  III. ADVENTURES OF THE CAPTAIN AND THE PROFESSOR.
 CHAPTER   IV. IN THE ATLANTIC VALLEY.
 CHAPTER    V. THE SUNKEN WRECK.
 CHAPTER   VI. IMPRISONED IN A WRECK.
 CHAPTER  VII. A CLOSE CALL.
 CHAPTER VIII. THE EARTHQUAKE.
 CHAPTER   IX. THE SUNKEN CITY.
 CHAPTER    X. BURIED UNDER THE SEA.
 CHAPTER   XI. ON THE REEF.
 CHAPTER  XII. A FEARFUL SITUATION.
 CHAPTER XIII. THE END.




                               CHAPTER I.
        WHICH INTRODUCES OUR CHARACTERS AND THE SUBMARINE BOAT.


Readestown, U. S. A., is a smart, flourishing little city upon a certain
river which runs down to the sea, and it owes its founding and success
to a family of wonderful inventors by the name of Reade.

Frank Reade, Jr., the latest representative of the wonderful family, is
a young man whose name is a household word the world over.

He is the inventor of so many wonderful machines, for traveling in the
air, under water, or anywhere else that the people of this great country
were by no means greatly surprised at the announcement which one day
went forth that the young inventor had perfected a new submarine boat,
and in conjunction with a famous scientist was about to make a trip of
exploration through the great Atlantic valley, which is under the sea.

But they were interested if not surprised, and everybody was agog to
know just when the expedition was to start.

And all the people would await with great interest the outcome of the
new and wonderful enterprise.

Some predicted a calamity.

It did not seem an easy matter to remain under water in a submarine boat
for days and weeks, living upon artificial air and deprived of heaven’s
light.

But those who knew Frank Reade, Jr., had no doubt of his success.

Particularly Prof. Von Bulow, the distinguished German scientist, who
was to accompany Frank.

This gentleman was very enthusiastic over the enterprise.

He had dined with the young inventor in the cabin of the Dart, and had
spent some hours in its trial under the surface of the river at
Readestown.

Therefore he was able to vouch for its efficiency and practicability.

“I will take my chances,” he said, with a broad smile; “it will be no
danger, I am very well assured.”

The professor was especially anxious to study phenomena of the deep sea,
and also the topography of the Atlantic Valley.

All that was known of this mighty depression had been gained by deep sea
soundings.

Certain specimens of its bottom had been brought up by the lead. Various
forms of animal life unknown to science had thus been discovered.

But it was only guess work after all. Here, however, was a mighty
opportunity to explore the ocean depths literally.

In his great machine shops at Readestown, Frank had constructed the
Dart.

Every detail of its draughting and plans had been made by him in his
secret model room.

The machinists had done the work under his directions. In this manner
the famous Dart was built.

In shape it was not unlike the model of a pleasure yacht.

There was a hull of thinly rolled but strongest steel. It was provided
with dead eye windows of convenient number, water-tight and provided
with slides.

Above the hull was an outer deck provided with a guard rail which
extended from stem to stern.

Then above this deck was a cylindrical body with windows, of toughest
plate glass, and doors in its ends.

This was the cabin of the Dart, and it was divided into various
compartments, which we will describe separately.

In the middle of the cabin cylinder was a section of straight plate
glass, so that the travelers sitting in the cabin were in constant view
of the sea and its depths.

Two masts rose fore and aft, and forward was a pilot-house where were
the nautical apparatus and the steering gear, as well as the electric
keyboard.

For the propelling and lighting power of the Dart was furnished by
electricity. Over the pilot-house was a most powerful electric
searchlight.

With this the bottom of the sea was made as plain as broad daylight, and
was a mighty advantage.

This is a meager description of the exterior of the Dart. The interior
was magnificent beyond description.

Frank had spared no expense in the fittings of the Dart, so that it was
a veritable floating palace.

The first cabin was richly furnished; the second cabin contained half a
dozen fine staterooms.

Beyond was the dining cabin, and then one came to the cook’s galley.

Below decks, however, was the region of wonder and mystery.

Here was all the wonderful and secret electrical machinery.

Also the mighty automatic reservoirs by which the Dart was made to sink
or rise at the will of the inventor.

Forward was the chemical room, where in tanks was stored the compressed
air, and also manufactured the same, with which the travelers were
enabled to live beneath the surface of the ocean.

Tubes went to every part of the cabin with this chemical product, and
there was also an apparatus for consuming the vitiated air or gases.

So that the air supply was always of the purest and best.

Truly, the submarine Dart was a wonderful product of the inventor’s
skill and ingenuity.

Few, however, could appreciate it more fully than Prof. Von Bulow, who
was fairly captivated with it.

“It is a most wonderful thing,” he declared earnestly. “There is nothing
in the kaiser’s land like it. You Americans are a wonderful people.”

Frank was besieged with hundreds of applications for various purposes.

Hosts of cranks applied for permission to accompany him. Some letters
were beseeching, some threatening.

One mildly insane woman wanted him to recover her son from the clutches
of an octopus.

Another asked that her husband might be brought back from the realm of
old Neptune.

But one applicant, at least, received consideration at Frank’s hands.

He was a bearded sea captain, who told of the sinking of a pirate ship
in a certain latitude with a vast treasure aboard.

Here was a reasonable request, and Frank agreed to look for it.

He took the bearings as given him by Captain Bell and said:

“If possible I will find your sunken treasure. It may be, though, that
time and the action of the tides have buried it so deep that I will not
be able to reclaim it.”

“I think not, sir,” said Captain Bell, eagerly. “It occurred, to be
sure, forty years ago, but I think it is upon a reef not so very far
beneath the surface.”

Then Captain Bell went on to tell the story of the lost treasure.

“I was quite a young man, then,” he said, “and was in the navy, as
captain of a small sloop-of-war, called the Utopia.

“Reports were coming in thick and fast of Captain Longboots, the pirate,
who was so venturesome as to penetrate within one hundred miles of New
York City in quest of a prize.

“His ship, the Vestal Virgin, odd name for a pirate, was a fast sailer,
and most of our war vessels could not keep in sight of her.

“The pirate captain’s real name nobody could learn, but he was called
Captain Longboots from the immensely long boots which he wore at all
times.

“But there was a suspicion in the navy department that he was really
Isaac Van Dorn, once a captain in the service, and who had become
disgruntled on account of a reprimand from a superior officer, and
sought revenge upon the Government by starting out upon a tour of
piracy.

“Well, the Secretary of the Navy selected me and the Utopia to go in
chase of the pirate.

“Just at this time there came a report that an English steamer had been
overhauled, and a million dollars in American gold had been seized by
Longboots.

“This settled the question. I was at once in receipt of sailing orders.

“We left Annapolis one bright day, and sailing down the river, soon
reached the open sea.

“I had nothing to guide me but my nose. I followed it, however, for five
hundred miles out to sea, and in the direction of Bermuda.

“My plan was not to attempt to overhaul the Vestal Virgin.

“I caused the Utopia to be rigged up like a merchant vessel. The
gunports were closed and painted, and everything warlike about her was
concealed.

“Then I lay in the track of foreign-going vessels for weeks. My game
worked.

“It was some while before the pirate showed up; but she did eventually,
and bore down upon us.

“We made a show of running away, but she overhauled us like the wind. We
did not have any trouble in letting her overtake us.

“She sent some hot shot across our bows and we hove to. We were all
ready for a fight.

“Behind our high bulwarks crouched our men all ready for boarding. The
false ports could be knocked out in ten seconds, and an instant
broadside given from ten guns.

“Nearer drew the Vestal Virgin. When she was a hundred yards distant,
Longboots himself appeared in the shrouds. I spoke to one of my men:

“‘Pick that villain off; let it be a signal for the broadside.’

“The order went along. Every man was ready. The gunner I had spoken to
was a dead shot.

“He fired, and Longboots dropped to the deck. Then open flew our ports
and we sent solid shot into her hull.

“She went down instantly. We had just time to get away from the vortex.
Only one of her men was saved.

“He made a clean breast of all, and declared that there was fully a
million and a half in treasure aboard the Vestal Virgin. We had some
thoughts then of recovering it.

“But the soundings were too deep. No diver could live at that depth. We
turned our course homeward.

“And this is how it comes that the Vestal Virgin and her mighty treasure
lies at the bottom of the sea.”

Frank had been deeply interested at this recital. As Captain Bell
finished he said:

“I will make every endeavor, be sure, to recover that treasure. If I do,
a fair share of it is yours.”

Captain Bell gripped Frank’s hand.

“I hope you will succeed,” he said; “and I feel quite sure you will.”

Then Frank showed the captain over the submarine boat.

He was delighted.

“Upon my word, skipper,” he cried. “I’m an old sea dog and reckoned
never to leave the surface of the ocean while in life. But I’d give a
good deal to take this v’yage with you.”

Frank was thoughtful a moment.

He had taken a great liking to Captain Bell.

“Do you mean that?” he asked.

“With all my heart,” replied the old skipper, eagerly. “And if I don’t
work and earn my passage you can put me off at the first port. Shall I
go with you?”

“Yes,” replied Frank; “you may.”




                              CHAPTER II.
                         THE EXPEDITION STARTS.


This made the captain a happy man.

“I’ll go and tell my wife at once,” he cried. “When do we sail?”

“In one week from to-day.”

“Good! I’ll report for duty then. Good luck till I see you again.”

And the bluff captain was gone.

Frank had two valuable men in his employ who traveled with him the world
over.

One was a negro, black as coal and jolly as could be. He rejoiced in the
name of Pomp.

The other was an Irishman, as full of native wit as a nut is of meat.
His name was Barney O’Shea.

Barney and Pomp were almost as famous as their young master and his
inventions.

They were the warmest of friends, and yet to hear them talk one would
have felt assured they were enemies, for they were fond of railing at
each other in a mock serious way.

If Barney could play a practical joke upon his colored colleague he was
happy, and Pomp seldom failed to retaliate in kind.

Really they were the life of any exploring expedition, and for faithful
service and devotion Frank could hardly have replaced them.

They were anticipating the submarine voyage with a great deal of relish.

“Golly,” cried Pomp; “I’se jes’ gwine to be tickled to deff to git to
trabeling once mo’. I’se been home jes’ long enough, dis chile hab.”

“Begorra, I’m wid yez, naygur!” cried Barney, bluntly. “It ain’t often
we two uns agree, but be me sowl it’s united we sthand on that, sor.”

“It am yo’ fault, I’ish, dat we don’ agree on everyfing!” declared Pomp,
solemnly.

“How do yez make that out?”

“Yo’ don’ take mah wo’d fo’ a cent.”

“Begorra, I’d hate to take yoursilf for that!” cried Barney, jocularly.
“Shure I’d kape the cint.”

Pomp scratched his woolly head.

“Yo’ fink dat am bery funny.”

“It’s not so funny as yez are.”

“Yah, yah! am dat so?”

“Didn’t I tell yez?”

“Don’ yo’ git too gay wif me, chile. Dar am jes’ sand enough in mah wool
fo’ to take de conceit out ob yo’.”

“Bejabers, I’d go soak me head if I had sand in me hair,” said Barney,
contemptuously; “take a shampoo, naygur!”

“Yo’ am gettin’ sassy!”

“On me worrud, I’m the only gintleman on yer list av acquaintances, an’
bekase I tell ye yer faults it proves me your frind.”

Pomp scratched his head again.

Then he looked at Barney and Barney looked at him. Barney began to edge
away and Pomp lowered his head.

“Look out fo’ yo’sef!”

“Kape away from me, yez black ape!”

But Pomp made a dive for the Celt. Barney let out with both his fists.
They struck the darky’s head like battering rams.

But they might as well have been directed toward a stone post.

They glanced off that hard surface with the greatest of ease. Then
Pomp’s head took Barney in the ribs.

The next moment the Celt was counting stars in a bewildering firmament.
He recovered just in time to grapple with his assailant.

Then followed a genuine old-fashioned wrestling match.

The two jokers rolled over and over upon the ground, pounding and
thumping each other until one or the other had enough.

Frank Reade, Jr., at once began to put the Dart in readiness for her
great trip.

Stores enough to last for a period of many months were placed aboard.

Every part of her mechanism was carefully examined and tested to make
sure that it was all right.

Three days before the appointed time for sailing Captain Bell and Prof.
Von Bulow appeared in town.

They had arranged their affairs and were all in readiness for the
expedition.

They were certainly the envied ones of a large coterie.

To take a trip across the Atlantic Valley in a submarine boat was
certainly no light privilege.

The captain particularly was in excellent spirits.

“We are sure to reclaim that million and a half of treasure,” he
declared, confidently. “It will be a big haul.”

Von Bulow was promising a hundred different scientific societies
specimens from the bed of the sea.

“It will be a big benefit to the world of science,” he declared. “Ah, my
soul! I will make great fame!”

Barney and Pomp were anticipating exciting adventures in the deep sea,
and Frank was reflecting upon the success of his new invention.

Thus all had some cherished plan or motive in view.

While the people of the country waited expectantly for the day of
departure, it came at last.

The Dart rested in a large tank in the yard of the machine works.

From this tank a wide and deep canal was locked twice into the river.
The party went aboard exactly at noon. Frank had the moorings cast off,
and the Dart entered the canal.

She glided through the locks gracefully and appeared in the river.

And now for the first time she was exposed to the view of the people.

The banks were thronged, and a great cheer went up as the new invention
appeared.

Bands played and cannon fired salutes. The party of explorers remained
on deck long enough to return the salutes.

Then a cry went up from the crowd.

“Sink her! Sink her!”

Frank knew that the people wanted a demonstration of the Dart’s
capabilities.

And he was willing to gratify them. He went into the pilot-house and the
others went into the cabin.

Then Frank pulled the steel lever which opened the reservoir. Water
displaced the compressed air.

Gracefully the Dart settled beneath the surface. Frank pressed a key and
the electric lights blazed forth.

The bed of the river was as plainly revealed as in daylight.

For some while the Dart remained under the surface. Then it reappeared
once more.

The people were satisfied. The air was rent with cheers, and it was a
triumphal parting which the submarine travelers received.

Then the Dart glided away upon her course.

Down the river with great speed she went. In due course of time she
reached the open sea.

The great trip through the Atlantic Valley was begun.

For some days the Dart stood straight out to sea. Frank had made his
course by the best of the submarine charts.

He had now reached what he believed to be the entrance to the great
valley under the sea.

This was at the beginning of the southeast branch of the Gulf Stream.
The submarine course would extend to within a few hundred miles of the
Azores and then southerly, finally terminating at Bermuda.

All this vast space was a mighty depression, known as the Great Valley.

It has ever been a mystery to sailors and geographers from early times.

Ancient chroniclers speak of an old-time continent and nation of people
due west from the coast of Spain.

As this continent does not exist to-day, it has been believed that it
has sunk by some mighty process of nature many centuries ago.

There are plenty of mythical tales of the sunken world and its wonders
now lying under the sea.

That the keels of our modern ocean greyhounds may daily pass over a
sunken world is by no means improbable.

Perhaps some day our own American continent may be relegated to a like
fate.

Let us hope that it will not come in our day.

But it can be seen that Prof. Von Bulow looked forward with immense
interest to the possible revelations in store.

He had already pictured out cities and palaces, valleys and towns,
forests and mountains under the sea.

Not until he was assured that he was at the entrance to the great
Atlantic Valley did Frank make preparations to descend.

Then he made deep soundings, and becoming satisfied that he had reached
the right point, the descent was made.

The travelers took a final walk on deck, and then the doors were
hermetically closed.

Frank stepped into the pilot-house and pulled the reservoir valve.

Instantly the Dart began to settle.

Down she went with a graceful plunge. There was a peculiar jolting,
jarring motion as she displaced the water.

Then the electric lights flashed forth. Those on board beheld a
wonderful sight.

About them were the wonders of the sea.

The bed of the ocean lay below, replete with aquatic life and growth.
The electric glare extended many hundred feet in all directions.

The Dart rested upon a small coral reef.

The whitest of sand lay spread between the clumps of sea plants.

There were grottoes and cavernous depths, miniature forests and castles
of coral.

In all were specimens of curious submarine life.

Shell and other fish were everywhere.

Huge species of ray, sunfish, shark and octopus roved about.

The lights of the submarine boat seemed to draw them from all quarters.

They came with fish curiosity up to the very windows of the boat, and
seemed anxious to effect an entrance.

This gave Prof. Von Bulow a much desired opportunity.

He studied them to his heart’s content while the Dart remained on the
reef.

Captain Bell was also interested, and he and the professor became quite
warm friends.

Frank was busy regulating the machinery of the boat preparatory to
diving into the great valley.

In the submarine outfit was a number of diving suits of a pattern
invented by Frank Reade, Jr.

They consisted of a helmet, with a reservoir of ample dimensions
fastened upon the back, and which was supplied with air by a chemical
generator, while the bad air escaped by a valve in the top of the
helmet.

Upon the helmet was also placed a small electric lamp, but of great
power of penetration.

With heavy weights upon their feet, the wearers of this ingenious diving
suit, having not to depend upon cord or life line, could remain at great
depths and for a long period under the sea.

It was proposed with Frank’s permission to use the diving suits that
Captain Bell and the professor should don these suits and take a walk
upon the sandy bed of the sea.

“Certainly you can take the suits,” said Frank. “Only be careful of
sharks.”

“We will do that,” replied the captain. “I hardly think we need fear
them with a good ax and knife.”

Barney brought up the suits from the lower cabin and he and Pomp helped
the two explorers to don them.

Soon they were equipped and ready for the departure from the interior of
the submarine boat. Both were eager and excited.




                              CHAPTER III.
              ADVENTURES OF THE CAPTAIN AND THE PROFESSOR.


Frank had some misgivings as to the policy of allowing these two
inexperienced men to leave the Dart.

So he caused Barney to place one of the suits within easy reach, so that
in case of need he could easily don it and go to their aid.

The two divers were all equipped, and all that was now necessary was for
them to leave the Dart.

This did not seem such a very easy thing to do.

It would seem that to open a door or window for exit would be to
instantly flood the interior of the boat.

And so it would have.

Frank had provided for this contingency, however, in the construction of
the boat.

A door opened from the cabin into a vestibule. Entering this the divers
closed a door behind them and opened a valve which flooded the
vestibule.

Then they opened the outer doors with impunity and walked out on the
deck.

The return to the cabin was effected by entering the vestibule, closing
the outer door and turning another valve which expelled the water by
pneumatic pressure. Then they could safely enter the cabin.

This was only one of the simplest of the many wonderful devices with
which the Dart was provided.

Once out on deck the divers experienced queer sensations for a moment.

The pressure of the water for a time made them blind and dizzy.

But they soon recovered and went over the Dart’s rail.

They stood upon the bed of the ocean. It was a wonderful reflection.

About were all the wonders heretofore denied the sight of man. Truly
this was no ordinary experience.

Forgetting himself, Bell attempted to speak to the professor. But the
latter, of course, could not hear him.

It was only by putting their helmets together that they were able to
converse, and then with difficulty.

They walked in the pathway of light from the boat.

Looking back through the plate glass windows they could easily see the
interior of the Dart.

Both divers now began to enjoy themselves looking for specimens and
exploring the submarine recesses.

While Captain Bell was not a scientist, he was nevertheless pleased to
render aid to the professor.

Thus they kept on, gradually working further and further away from the
submarine boat, until finally they reached the shadows which indicated
the limit of the searchlight.

Beyond all was pitchy blackness, for it was into the unknown depths of
the great Atlantic Valley.

Captain Bell put his helmet close to the professor’s and shouted:

“Is it safe to go further?”

“I think not,” replied Von Bulow. “We had better turn back.”

But even as he said this he saw a queer specimen of fish slowly make its
way into a coral cave near.

“I must have that fellow,” he exclaimed, excitedly. “He is a new
variety.”

Without a thought of possible peril the professor darted in pursuit.
Into the cavern he went.

Bell stood and looked after him somewhat doubtfully.

The old sea captain did not reckon but that Von Bulow was amply capable
of taking care of himself, though really he regarded it as a trifle
risky.

The professor turned an angle of the cavern and was out of sight.

The captain was a trifle weary with the exertion of climbing over the
slippery piles of seaweed, and did not follow.

He waited what seemed to him an interminable time.

The professor did not come out of the cave.

“Whew!” exclaimed the old sea captain, finally. “Dash my timbers, but
I’m afraid he’s come to harm.”

The more the captain pondered over the matter the deeper became his
alarm.

At length he decided to go in quest of his companion.

He entered the cave and turned its angle just as the professor had done.

Only a strange sense of intuition and a swift downward glance saved the
captain’s life at that moment.

He saw a deep and yawning abyss at his feet.

For a moment he was overcome with grisly horror.

He saw how easy it was for any one to unwittingly walk into that death
hole. The light on his helmet partly displaced the gloom.

But unless one looked down he would be sure to walk over the edge.

That poor Von Bulow had done this there was no manner of reason to
doubt.

For a moment the captain stood transfixed. It was a terrible reality.
What was to be done?

It was some time before his nerves were steady enough to enable him to
advance to the verge and peer over.

But all down below was as black as Erebus.

Forgetting himself, the captain tried to shout down into the abyss, but
no answer came back, of course.

Was Von Bulow forever lost?

Was he buried beneath that coral reef, never to be seen again by human
eyes? It was terrible!

The captain’s brain began to work in devising some scheme for rescue,
but it was in vain.

He leaned far over the verge.

Ha! was he dreaming, or was his eyesight true? Was not that a star of
light far down there in the darkness?

He believed it was.

Doubtless it was the electric light upon Von Bulow’s helmet.

But it was visible only a brief moment.

Then it disappeared.

The captain leaned yet further over the verge.

Unfortunate move! Suddenly and without warning he lost his balance! Over
the edge like a flash he went.

Down into the abyss he sank; but it was not like falling through air.

He alighted without any serious jar upon a bed of sand fully fifty feet
below. He was at the bottom of the pit.

The helmet light made visible objects near at hand.

The captain recovered himself and looked about him.

He saw white walls of coral and long cavernous passages leading in all
directions.

He was really in the heart of the coral reef. But he looked in vain for
the professor.

Von Bulow was not in sight.

Was the professor dead? Had he become the victim of some submarine
monster? The captain did not believe this.

He proceeded to examine critically the bed of sand upon which he rested.

There were the marks of footprints and the part impress of a man’s form.
Von Bulow had fallen here.

But he had also arisen, for the footprints here led into one of the
passages.

Filled with excitement, Bell proceeded to follow them. He was soon deep
in the passage.

And as he pressed on he saw a flickering light in the far distance.

Suddenly the light ceased to move and remained stationary. Bell knew
what it meant full well.

The professor had turned and saw the captain following him. He was
waiting for him.

Quickly Bell overtook his colleague. The two divers fairly embraced in
their joy.

“I thought you were lost,” cried Bell. “I gave you up for dead.”

“Then you fell into the same trap!”

“Yes.”

“My soul! How terrible our position is!”

“Yes; it is bad.”

“We must get out of here or die. Do you believe it possible to do so?”

Captain Bell shrugged his shoulders.

“We have only to try,” he said.

“You are right.”

“Shall we not follow this passage to the end? It may yet have an upward
trend.”

“You are right.”

So they set forth down the passage under the coral reef.

It seemed ages that they wandered on. There seemed no end to the
passage.

They were rapidly growing exhausted. At length Bell sank panting down
upon a shelf of coral.

“My soul!” he gasped. “I fear we are forever lost!”

“Perhaps we had better return,” shouted Von Bulow. “We seem to be going
deeper into the center of the earth.”

But Captain Bell shook his head.

“No,” he replied. “We cannot go back now. Our only hope is in going on.”

So they staggered on again.

But unobserved by them all the while the passage had been trending
upward. As good fortune had it they had chosen the only safe and sure
way out of the reef.

Suddenly a dazzling light shone forth far ahead.

“The Dart!” gasped Bell, joyfully. “We are saved!”

It was truly the submarine boat.

A few moments later they came out of the cavern, and were in plain view
of the boat.

They saw that the cave from which they emerged was only one of many
which they had passed in their way from the boat some hours before.

For they had been a long time absent from the Dart.

Indeed, so long that Frank had become greatly worried, and had even
donned his diving suit preparatory to going out to search for them.

But just as the young inventor was about to go forth Barney cried:

“Dere they are, Misther Frank!”

Sure enough, the two divers were seen rapidly approaching the Dart.

“Mercy!” exclaimed Frank, with a deep breath. “I am thankful for that. I
had given them up for lost.”

But even as he spoke he gave a great shout of alarm.

Behind the two men there suddenly appeared a giant form.

Frank saw that it was an octopus. Its long tentacles were ready to grasp
them. It was a moment of fearful peril.

Barney rushed to the observation window, screaming and waving his arms
wildly.

“Look out wid yez!” he shouted. “Shure, don’t yez see phwat’s behind
yez?”

Of course the two men did not hear these words, but they saw Barney’s
actions and at once understood.

They turned quickly, but it was too late.

Von Bulow was instantly encircled by a tentacle. Captain Bell was just
quick enough to avoid one.

Frank Reade, Jr., saw that only the most desperate of action would save
the scientist then.

He sprang down into the vestibule with an ax in his hand. He had already
closed down his helmet. He closed the door and flooded the vestibule.




                              CHAPTER IV.
                        IN THE ATLANTIC VALLEY.


It was but a moment’s work for Frank to spring out on deck. Then he
reached the sands below.

Swinging the ax aloft, he rushed to Von Bulow’s assistance.

He was not a moment too soon.

Captain Bell had already attacked the monster. But Frank’s arrival saved
the day.

The young inventor swung the ax over his head and made a slashing blow
at the monster’s head.

It struck the enormous hawk-like beak and slashed off part of it.

Quick as thought Frank repeated the blow.

The monster writhed and made an effort to encircle Frank with another of
its long arms.

But the young inventor this time buried the ax to the head in the
creature’s cat-like eye.

This was the telling stroke.

It penetrated the brain, and the octopus straightened in death throes.

The battle was over.

Barney and Pomp were watching the contest from one of the windows of the
submarine boat.

“Golly!” cried Pomp, cutting a pigeon wing. “Marse, Frank am done fixed
dat critter for suah!”

“Bejabers! when Misther Frank goes for to do a thing, he does it up in
illegant shape!” declared Barney.

“Yo’ am right, I’ish.”

Prof. Von Bulow was extricated from the embrace of the octopus, and all
returned to the boat.

The adventures detailed by the captain and the professor were thrilling,
indeed, and the others listened to them with interest.

“It will be hardly safe to repeat that sort of thing!” said Frank; “the
next time you gentlemen go out on an exploring expedition, I think that
one of us who is more experienced in that sort of thing had better go
with you.”

“We shall not demur,” said Captain Bell, with a laugh. “I am afraid we
are hardly qualified to face such risks.”

After Frank had concluded his inspection of the machinery it was decided
to at once continue the journey into the Atlantic Valley.

So the machinery was put in motion, and the boat dove into the dark
depths to be lost from the world for many months.

The searchlight showed all about for a great distance as plain as day.

But the boat passed over immense depths where all was darkness far
below, and into which the boat could not descend on account of the
enormous pressure.

There was an automatic gauge on the pilot-house which registered this
pressure and determined the depth to which it was safe to go.

Below this the boat would be crushed like an egg shell.

But as a general thing the Dart was enabled to keep in view of the bed
of the ocean.

This was now much diversified by hills and even mountains.

There were innumerable caves, many of which were of enormous depth.

In fact the Dart once sailed into one of these nearly half a mile before
it was discovered by the voyagers that they were in a cave.

Then, of course, it was in order to turn about and sail out, but before
this was done a thrilling experience was had.

Prof. Von Bulow was greatly interested in this wonder of the ocean
depths—this submarine cave of the great Atlantic Valley.

“There is nothing like it on top of the earth,” he declared. “I would
like very much to examine its structure, which has the appearance of
being quartz.”

“Quartz!” exclaimed Captain Bell.

“Yes.”

“Not of the gold-bearing species?”

“It is not impossible.”

At once everybody was interested, even Frank himself.

“You shall have your desire, professor,” he declared.

Accordingly the Dart was brought to a stop and rested upon the bed of
the cavern. The diving suits were brought out.

It was decided that Frank and Barney should accompany the professor this
time.

Pomp and Captain Bell were to remain on board the Dart.

The searchlight illumined the walls of the cavern in beautiful style.
They were of great beauty.

Overhead they were crystal-like in their character, and the declaration
by the professor that they were of quartz did not by any means seem far
fetched.

The diving suits were donned, and the three explorers, well armed with
ax and knife, left the Dart.

The floor of the cavern was tolerably smooth. They easily made their way
over it, and Von Bulow was soon at work.

It did not take the professor long to get to work with his hammer.

In a very short time he had chipped off enough of the quartz to reveal a
curious yellow vein which seemed to extend an indefinite distance into
the ledge.

The professor appeared excited.

Seeing this, Frank put his helmet close to his and shouted:

“Well, Von Bulow, what do you make of it?”

“Gold!” shouted the excited scientist.

Frank was astounded.

“Gold?” he repeated.

“Yes.”

“A submarine gold mine?”

“Exactly.”

Barney had also placed his helmet close to the others and heard this.

“Bejabers!” he cried; “then it’s a moighty fortune we’ve found.”

“I think it would assay heavily,” declared the professor; “if it was
only on the surface, now, what it would be worth!”

Frank saw the point.

“But it is of no value here?”

The professor nodded.

“Exactly. How could a stamp mill be operated down here at this depth? It
would cost more than the ore is worth to mine it.”

“But perhaps we might find some nuggets hereabouts.”

“No,” replied Von Bulow, decidedly. “It is not likely. It is probable
that all the gold hereabouts is secreted in these quartz walls. It is
only a question of getting it out.”

“Which is impracticable.”

“Exactly.”

The thought that they were really in a mighty submarine gold mine was a
most thrilling one.

However, the professor had other points to gain now, so he left the gold
vein and began some further explorations of the submarine cave.

This extended an unknown distance into the bowels of the earth.

The party did not venture to go far beyond the rays of the searchlight.

There would be great danger of getting lost in the labyrinth of
passages, and certainly there would be no pleasure in this.

In view of the experiences of the professor and the captain, this was an
issue to be avoided.

However, they carried the exploration as far as seemed safe.

This was a number of hundred yards from the submarine boat, and they
began to think of returning when Barney stumbled upon an exciting
adventure.

Suddenly he espied a curious-looking round body lying close to the wall
of the cavern, and extending out of sight into dark depths.

The Celt was nothing if not curious.

It looked like a strange formation of some aquatic growth, and
unthinkingly Barney jabbed the point of his knife into it.

The result was thrilling.

The round body instantly contracted and then rebounded, throwing Barney
backward with great force.

And then out of the darkness of a cavern passage came a great flat head
with horrid jaws.

It was a species of sea serpent. The huge coils were thrashing the water
of the cavern furiously, and the divers stood for a moment paralyzed
with terror.

The sea serpent was undoubtedly the habitue of the ocean cavern. He
seemed also disposed to resent this invasion upon his chosen territory.

The situation was critical.

Frank saw at once that quick action must be made, or serious
consequences would be the result.

The young inventor, therefore, at once signaled the others to follow
him, and began a retreat for the Dart.

But the sea serpent was following, and was certain to overtake them.
Already Frank felt the creature right behind him.

And he turned to see those horrid jaws wide open above him. If they
should strike him, doubtless it would be a death blow.

So Frank quickly dodged and made a blow at the monster with his ax.

It missed the mark, and the next moment the creature’s jaws were right
over Frank. It was a horrible moment.

Only the young inventor’s rare presence of mind saved him then.

Quick as a flash he drove the ax into the serpent’s jaws and down its
throat. Then he was hurled half senseless to the floor of the cavern.

The ax disappeared down the serpent’s throat instantly.

It was undoubtedly not averse to a diet of the sort, for it did not seem
to affect his snakeship.

But Frank was for the nonce safe.

He had been hurled into a small recess in the wall of the cavern, and
the serpent passed on.

It was now after Barney and Von Bulow.

But Frank’s fracas with it had given them a chance to get a good lead.

They were now quite near the Dart, and were enabled to reach it in time.

On to the deck and into the vestibule they dashed.

The next moment the submarine boat received a terrific shock.

The sea serpent struck it full force, and for a moment it seemed as if
the fate of the Dart was sealed.

But, as good luck had it, the steel work of the boat was harder than the
serpent’s head.

It resisted the shock. But Pomp and Captain Bell were thrown across the
cabin.

They had seen the serpent coming in pursuit of Von Bulow and Barney, and
it had given them a thrill.

“Golly!” screamed Pomp. “De debbil am after dem. Shuah nuff dat big
snake will swallow us all up!”

“Great heavens!” gasped Captain Bell, “the creature means to strike us.”

“Look out fo’ yo’sef!”

Into the vestibule darted Barney and Von Bulow.

Then came the shock.

But the Dart was not demolished. On the contrary the sea serpent seemed
for a moment stunned.

Then it was that Barney recovered his senses. He remembered that Frank
had been left behind, and with an inward cry darted out of the
vestibule.

“Bejabers! it’s not mesilf as will go off and lave Misther Frank in such
a heap av trouble,” he muttered. “I’ll niver cum back widout him!”




                               CHAPTER V.
                           THE SUNKEN WRECK.


Frank had recovered quickly and emerged from his place of safety just in
time to see the sea serpent strike the Dart.

The young inventor had seen and realized the awful risk which this
entailed, and muttered:

“My goodness! We are all lost!”

But the result of the serpent’s attack was indeed gratifying.

And he also saw what he believed to be his opportunity. Drawing his
knife he darted after the monster.

It was lying half dormant on the floor of the cavern from the shock
which it had received.

But as Frank ran toward the Dart he saw Barney coming toward him.

Barney fairly embraced his young master, as he cried, placing his helmet
close to Frank’s:

“Och hone, Misther Frank, an’ I thought it was kilt entoirely ye was!”

“I had a close call,” replied Frank. “But where is the captain?”

“Shure, he’s safe aboard, sor.”

“Good! Now, Barney, we’ve got to kill that monster some way.”

The Celt looked at the dormant serpent a moment, and then swung his ax
aloft, saying:

“Shure, an’ it’s wid yez I am, Misther Frank. Say the worrud an’ I’ll go
up on this side of him an’ cut his head off.”

“Let me take your ax,” said Frank, resolutely.

Barney complied and drew his knife. Frank made a motion for him to
follow.

The serpent was quickly recovering from his stupor.

Frank saw that there was no time to lose, and at once made a bold
attack. When near the monster’s head he rushed forward.

The serpent reared its horrible jaws and seemed about to strike Frank;
but the young inventor struck first.

The keen blade of the ax swung around and took the serpent full in the
jaw.

It was a telling blow.

It fairly sliced away a portion of the monster’s jaw and filled the
water with blood. Again Frank swung the ax aloft.

Barney attacked the body of the serpent, trying to cut the huge coil in
two.

The attack was a success.

Again Frank’s ax struck the serpent full in the neck, cutting a huge
gash.

Then the maddened reptile made a savage blow at Frank.

It just missed him by a narrow margin and proved the end of the
struggle.

Frank saw his opportunity, and gave the reptile a blow which almost
severed its head from its body.

The monster’s huge coils went writhing and twisting into the depths of
the cavern.

The struggle was over.

Frank and Barney, somewhat exhausted by the struggle, climbed aboard the
Dart.

They were joyfully welcomed by the others, and mutual congratulations
were exchanged over the success of the fight.

“Begorra, I thought shure it was the ind av Misther Frank!” cried
Barney. “Shure, it wud have been a sorry day for the loikes av us!”

“Golly, if I had jes’ been out dere I would hab been happy!” declared
Pomp. “I was jes’ itching fo’ to git a crack at dat ar big rapscallion
of a snake.”

“Well, as for me,” said Von Bulow, with a laugh, “I quite distinguished
myself by running away. But I was never cut out for a fighting man
anyway.”

“And I stayed at home,” rejoined Bell. “Frank, you and Barney are the
heroes.”

All were intensely hungry, and Pomp served up a steaming repast.

There was lovely steak from the swordfish, crabs on toast, fresh and
nice, and many other saline delicacies, which were easily procured in
the sea.

The explorers regaled themselves sumptuously, and then all turned in for
a sleep.

Frank had decided to spend some hours longer in the cavern.

When they awoke six hours later, Frank went into the pilot-house and
started the Dart for the mouth of the immense ocean cavern.

In due time this was reached, and soon they were not so very far from
the spot where Captain Bell’s treasure ship had sunk.

All were now eagerly on the lookout for the wreck.

The searchlight’s rays were sent in every direction through the ocean
depths.

Suddenly Captain Bell, who was forward on the lookout, shouted:

“Wreck ahoy!”

The announcement went through the boat with startling force.

Everybody was at once on the qui vive.

And now dead ahead was seen a huge black mass looming up through the
water. It was a sunken ship.

Of course all believed it to be the Vestal Virgin.

But the wreck was so covered with silt and seaweed that its character
could not well be identified.

The submarine boat sailed around it twice, then Frank allowed it to come
to a rest on the ocean floor of white sand.

“What do you make of it, skipper?” asked Captain Bell, as Frank came out
of the pilot-house.

“I hardly know,” replied Frank. “It looks to me, though, like a ship of
more modern build than the pirate vessel.”

“It’s mighty hard to tell for the seaweed over it.”

“Yes.”

“But I think it’s the Virgin!”

“You do?”

“Yes; she’s in about the right location. It must be her.”

“I hope so.”

Preparations were now made to go out and inspect the submarine wreck.
This fell to the lot of Frank, Von Bulow and the captain.

Barney and Pomp remained behind.

They were very quickly equipped for the expedition; armed with axes and
saws and such tools as were deemed necessary, they left the Dart.

It was an easy matter to climb over the kelp-strewn rocks until the
sunken vessel was reached.

It lay half upon its side, and its port rail was nearly on a level with
a drift of hard, white sand.

This made it an easy matter for the explorers to reach the deck.

They simply walked up the sandy slope and climbed over the rail.

In the glare of the electric light, the deck was seen to be in a state
of wild disorder.

Rotting spars and heaps of debris covered it from stem to stern.

It was easy to see that the vessel had passed through a terrible
experience at sea.

The storm which sent it to the bottom must have been a fearful one.

It required no further examination to satisfy the party that this was
not the treasure ship.

Captain Bell saw at once that it was not the Vestal Virgin, and putting
his helmet close to Frank’s, shouted:

“This is not the ship.”

“It looks like a merchantman,” replied Frank.

“It is.”

“Moreover, it was never sent to the bottom by shotted guns. It went down
in a fearful storm.”

“Without a doubt. But the Virgin must have gone down in this vicinity.”

“Yes.”

“We will probably find her not far from here.”

“Well,” said Frank, doubtfully, “is it worth while to explore this hulk?
She probably did not carry money.”

Von Bulow, however, was in favor of exploring the sunken merchantman.

“For curiosity, if nothing else,” he explained. “I’m quite anxious.”

“Very well,” agreed Frank. “It shall be so.”

With which the young inventor crossed the deck. He reached the
companionway which led into the cabin.

This was closed, but a blow with an ax forced it in.

The stairs that led downward into the cabin were crumbling with decay.

Frank led the way down.

The light upon his helmet was sufficiently bright to reveal objects
below quite plainly.

Von Bulow and the captain followed. All stood at the foot of the
companion ladder.

The cabin was in a fearful state of dissolution.

The elegant furnishings were all rotten and in shreds, and even the
cabin table was shredded by sea worms.

But the explorers did not pause here long.

They passed through and into the forward cabin. Here was the long mess
table, and upon it were dishes and eating utensils, just as the men had
been served, which was the last ever eaten on board the ship.

Frank took up one of the plates. In the china was the imperishable mark
usually placed upon all ships’ ware with the name:

“Ship Tempest, Baltimore.”

This was all that could be learned of the identity of the vessel or of
its mission. Yet it was reasonable to suppose that she was a
merchantman.

Little more of interest was found aboard her.

A few skeletons of the members of the crew and some corroded coins. This
was all of value.

The party retraced their steps to the deck. Frank was the first to
spring up out of the companionway, and as he did so he was given a
startling shock.

Until now the wreck had been flooded with a brilliant light from the
searchlight of the Dart.

But this was no longer so.

All was the darkness of the ocean depths about. Nothing could be seen
beyond the slight radius made by the light on their helmets.

The Dart had left them.

What did it mean?

For a moment the explorers were appalled with the most startling
realization.

Left at the bottom of the ocean, upon a sunken wreck.

There was no possible way of ever reaching the surface.

That is unless the Dart should return from where it had gone, and why it
should have left them in this manner was a mystery.

Frank knew that Barney and Pomp would not leave the vicinity for any
light reason.

“Something has happened!” he exclaimed in dismay.

“The Dart has met with a mishap.”

“My goodness!” exclaimed Von Bulow; “then we are lost!”

“What could have happened?” asked Bell in horror.

Their three helmets were close together at this moment. The only logical
conclusion that Frank could arrive at was that the Dart had received
some fearful shock and had gone to the surface.

If this was the case it would perhaps shortly return.

But the one horrifying thought which oppressed Frank was that possibly
Barney and Pomp would lose their bearings and would not be able to find
the three divers.




                              CHAPTER VI.
                         IMPRISONED IN A WRECK.


In this case their fate was certainly sealed.

Lost at the bottom of the sea; lost in the great Atlantic Valley. What
an awful thing to consider!

Frank knew, however, that they could stay death for a number of days.

There was enough material in the generators to keep them alive that
length of time.

But if the Dart should not return in that interval they were truly lost.

It was some while before any one ventured to speak again.

Then Bell said, despairingly:

“How far is it to the land?”

“Fully a thousand miles in any direction,” replied Frank.

“We can hardly walk then?”

“No, I think not.”

“Is there any possibility of the Dart returning?”

“We can only hope that it will. Our only way is to wait here.”

Von Bulow sat down upon the rail of the sunken vessel, Captain Bell
paced the deck, Frank tried to pierce the gloom of the ocean depths for
some sign of the Dart.

And now, at this critical moment, a new and thrilling peril confronted
the trio.

Suddenly Frank saw a long, sinuous body flash through the water some
fifty feet distant.

He saw its outlines and its shining silver scales, and at once
recognized a deadly foe.

“A swordfish,” he muttered.

Then he made a motion of warning to the others.

They leaped out of the way, but were not a moment too soon.

The huge fish, with its keen lance of sharpest bone, had made a dive for
them.

As it dodged past him Frank struck at it with his ax.

The blow nearly severed one of the fins of the huge fish and a cloud of
blood spurted into the water.

But instantly the swordfish turned and came again to the attack.

And now the critical moment had come. In those depths the swordfish was
a fearful foe.

If he should strike any one of the party with his lance, it would mean
instant death.

The monster seemed savagely aggressive as well.

On it came again at fearful speed and accuracy straight at Frank Reade,
Jr.

The young inventor waited until the fish had almost reached him; then
quick as a flash he dodged under it.

And as he did so he threw up his right hand, clutching the knife with
the point upward.

By the sheerest of good luck the knife struck the fish and ripped his
abdomen open to a great length.

This settled the contest. The fish’s entrails dropped out, and the
monster lay upon the deck of the ship dead.

But this did not by any means dispose of the fearful peril which
surrounded the divers.

A literal school of swordfish were seen bearing down upon the party.

It was useless to think of coping with them in such numbers. It was
necessary to make quick and definite action.

Frank sprang toward the companionway and motioned the others to follow
him.

They were not a moment too soon in this, as the fish came about in a
cloud, hovering over the hatchway, and trying to force an entrance.

But the divers were safe for the nonce in their retreat, and it was
deemed best to remain there until the fish should disperse.

But they seemed in no disposition to do this.

Indeed, they remained above the deck, besieging the party quite
effectually.

The position was by no means a pleasant one.

“Well,” cried Frank, as they put their helmets together, “I don’t see
but that we are obliged to stay here whether we will or no.”

“That’s so,” agreed Bill. “I wish the beastly critters would clear out.”

Von Bulow was getting depressed.

“The most of us better make our peace with the Almighty,” he declared.
“We shall never get out of this scrape.”

And there the three divers were held imprisoned in the cabin of the
sunken ship, while a rescue seemed indeed a hopeless thing.

But let us return to the Dart, and learn the fate which had overtaken
it.

Barney and Pomp were faithful and reliable servants.

They were well familiar with the workings of the craft, and no ordinary
accident would have troubled them long.

But the accident which befell the Dart was not an ordinary one.

Left aboard the boat, Barney and Pomp fell to skylarking.

They were as full of fun as a nut is of meat.

After jibing each other for a while they got to wrestling.

“Hi, dar, chile, don’ yo’ put yo’ han’s on me!” cried Pomp, as Barney
closed with him. “If yo’ does yo’ shuah nuff get de wuss ob it!”

“Begorra, I’ll have the best av yez or me name’s not O’Shea!” cried
Barney, hilariously. “Shure, I’ll niver be downed by a naygur!”

“Clar away dar, I’ish!”

But Barney was in for a ruction.

“Whurroo!” he cried. “Here’s at yez!”

Then they went madly whirling about the cabin in a lively tussle.

It was hard to say which had the best of it.

It was certainly a lively contest, and honors were even until suddenly
Barney tripped over a rug.

Then down went Pomp’s head, and plump into the Celt’s stomach it went.

Barney went down, and Pomp was on top of him. The darky hung to his man
like a leech.

“Ki, dar! Yo’ am not in it wif dis chile!” he shrieked. “Yo’ am beat,
I’ish!”

“Divil a bit!” screeched Barney. “I’ll have yez off yet!”

But just at that moment something happened which terminated the friendly
wrestle almost instantly.

There was a sudden severe shock, and the two jokers were thrown half-way
across the cabin.

When they picked themselves up, both were dumbfounded to hear the
electrical machinery buzzing furiously.

The submarine boat was swaying madly, and they had hard work to keep
their feet, so violent was the motion.

“Massy Lordy!” gasped Pomp; “wha’ am de mattah, chile?”

“Matther!” ejaculated Barney. “Shure, the divil is carrying us away.”

“I don’ fink dat am jes’ a fac’!”

Barney sprang into the pilot-house instantly.

He tried to press the lever which shut off the speed current. It would
not answer to his touch.

The submarine boat was shooting like lightning through the water.

How far they had run from the sunken wreck neither knew, but it was very
likely several miles.

Here was a fearful situation.

The two looked at each other aghast. What was to be done? The risk was
something awful.

The Dart was not far from the bottom of the ocean.

At any moment she might strike some projecting hillock or eminence. It
would mean utter destruction.

Barney was pale as a ghost, and Pomp’s eyes bulged like moons.

“Golly, fo’ massy sakes!” wailed the affrighted darky. “We am done fo’!”

“Begorra, it’s kilt we’ll be if we don’t sthop the boat!”

“An’ Marse Frank am lef’ all alone behind dar. Mebbe we kain’t nebber
find him no mo’.”

It was a horrible thought which oppressed the two jokers. But they were
not the kind to remain inactive.

Something must be done.

Barney realized this. If the machinery was out of order the cause must
be found and remedied.

He rushed down into the engine-room and began to examine it.

At once he saw the trouble.

One of the heavy dynamos had become unshelved, and the lever wire was
twisted and broken.

Barney instantly shouted:

“Come down here, naygur!”

Pomp at once responded.

With their united effort the dynamo was relocated and the lever wire
connected. Then Barney operated the lever and it worked all right.

The boat came to a stop.

And not a moment too soon. Just ahead was a mighty eminence, and the
Dart would certainly have struck it at full speed.

“Golly!” gasped Pomp. “Dat am jes’ de berry closest call I ebber knowed
ob!”

“Begorra, a miss is as good as a mile,” said Barney. “Shure, we must go
back now.”

“Does yo’ fink yo’ kin fin’ yo’ way back, chile?”

This was quite a problem. The Dart had undoubtedly run many miles, and
to find the way back, as no note had been taken of their course was all
a matter of chance.

“But fo’ de Lor’ sakes, whatebber struck the boat in de fust place?”
asked Pomp. “Howebber did it git started?”

“I’ll show yez,” said Barney.

He led the way to the pilot-house.

Upon the vessel’s bow was a huge specimen of fish. It was a swordfish.

The monster had dashed against the vessel with such force that a part of
the bulwark had been carried away, and the swordfish had been caught in
the wire hamper of the rail.

It was certainly the shock given the vessel by the huge fish which had
dislocated the dynamo and disarranged the mechanism of the Dart.

As the heavy body of the fish sagged the boat, Barney donned a diving
suit, and going out, cut away the incumbrance.

The damage was repaired as much as possible, and then the boat was
turned about.

The return course, as nearly as could be guessed, was taken.

The Dart sailed on rapidly. But though miles were passed, not sign of
the sunken wreck was seen.

Barney doubled back on his course and sailed for miles. Hours passed and
the anxious searchers were unrewarded.

“Massy sakes!” gasped Pomp. “I done fear dat Marse Frank am done fo’ dis
time. I jes’ fink he nebber come back no mo’!”

“Begorra, he was a good, kind masther!”

“Dat am so, honey!”

“On me worrud, I’ll niver give up looking for him if I have to sail
through these seas fer all me loife!”

“I’m wid yo’, I’ish!”

So they kept sailing about at random for a full day.

Then Barney suddenly cried:

“Look yonder, naygur. Phwat do yez call that?”

It was a little star of light twinkling through the gloom. There was but
one explanation for its presence in those depths.

It was an electric light, and doubtless came from the helmet lamp of one
of the lost divers.

Barney at once shaped the course of the Dart for it. The two jokers
anxiously awaited the result.




                              CHAPTER VII.
                             A CLOSE CALL.


The three divers in the cabin of the sunken derelict were in by no means
a cheerful or agreeable frame of mind.

The swordfish would yet persist in hovering above the deck.

They were apparently hoping that their would-be victims would come out.
But they did not.

Hours passed slowly by.

Captain Bell sank down upon the rotting stairs and went to sleep. But
Frank and the professor kept unwearying vigil.

They were waiting for the welcome glare of the Dart’s searchlight.

Should that appear they would know that they were saved.

But it did not come.

The Dart was far from the spot at the moment. The likelihood was not
strong for an immediate return.

But the state of siege was suddenly raised in an unexpected manner.

There is a small fish which is a habitue of the ocean depths called the
torpedo.

It has all the power and characteristics of a powerful electrical
battery, and can give a stunning shock to anybody which comes in contact
with it.

All manner of fishes, large and small, even the monster whale, stand in
dread of the torpedo.

It was a school of these odd fish which now proved the means of raising
the siege.

They came down upon the school of swordfish with demoralizing effects.

In less time than it takes to tell it, every swordfish was far from the
spot, and speeding for their lives to other depths.

Prof. Von Bulow saw the torpedoes coming and realized their nature.

He put his helmet against Frank’s and shouted:

“Look out! If those little fiends hit one of us they will knock the
breath away.”

Frank aroused Captain Bell. Some loose planks were brought and the hatch
covered.

This was to prevent the torpedoes from entering; but the latter did not
seem at all inclined to attack the divers.

They were of a species which will not attack unless attacked. This was
fortunate for our friends.

Neither did they remain long in the vicinity.

In fact they departed very soon, and with a breath of relief Frank
opened the hatch and climbed out on deck.

It was at this moment that Barney caught sight of the distant star of
light, and this was Frank’s helmet.

At almost the same moment Frank saw the distant glare of the searchlight
on the Dart.

A great cry burst from him.

He rushed to the companionway and made excited signs to the others.

At once they rushed upon deck.

The excitement was intense.

There was no doubt but that it was the Dart returning. All waited
eagerly, hoping and praying that it would not pass them by.

And as fortune had it, it did not.

Presently its course seemed changed somewhat and it apparently bore down
upon the hulk.

“We are saved!” cried Frank.

“Heaven has not deserted us,” said Von Bulow, joyously.

And indeed it was a narrow escape for the trio of divers.

There had been almost the moral certainty that they were doomed to find
a grave at the bottom of the sea.

But this danger had passed and rescue was at hand. Their joy cannot be
fully imagined or expressed.

Captain Bell was so overcome by it that he danced a hornpipe on the
rotten deck of the old hulk.

Just as soon as the hulk came within the radius of the searchlight’s
glare Barney had seen it.

It was the work of but a very few moments for the Celt to change the
course of the Dart.

He bore down for the hulk with all speed. As they drew nearer the trio
of divers were seen upon the deck.

“Glory fo’ goodness!” cried Pomp, wildly; “we am jes’ gwine fo’ to sabe
dose chilluns, I’ish, shuah’s yo’ bo’n!”

Barney whistled a jig, and Pomp stood on his head with glee.

“We shall live!” cried Captain Bell. “We will find the Virgin next, and
then the great treasure is ours.”

Soon the Dart came to a stop not fifty yards away.

The party left the wreck and quickly clambered aboard the submarine
boat.

Once more safely in the cabin of the Dart, joy and mutual
congratulations followed.

Barney told his story, and Frank spoke warm words of commendation of his
course.

“You did just right,” he declared; “the Dart is all right. I can see
nothing the matter with her.”

“Let us continue the search for the pirate ship,” said Captain Bell.

“Which we will do!” declared Frank.

But first refreshments were had, and all took a few hours of sleep. Much
recuperated, the journey was continued some while later.

The Dart went on an exploring tour now in the vicinity of the sunken
wreck.

In all directions the search for the Virgin was made.

And fortune favored the searchers. Suddenly the wreck was sighted.

It had been difficult to find for the fact that the shifting sands had
nearly covered the hull.

The many years which had elapsed had caused the masts and rigging to
fall and partly decay.

But Captain Bell declared it his confident belief that it was the
Virgin.

“I know her by the outline of her bow and her figurehead,” he declared;
“that’s the old pirate, for sure!”

At once the Dart anchored near the treasure ship.

All became excitement, for it was indeed a thrilling thing to think that
they were about to investigate a wreck with perhaps millions in gold
aboard.

As before, Barney and Pomp were to remain on board the Dart, while the
others did the exploring.

Soon they were all in readiness, and Frank led the way.

They left the Dart and crossed the intervening distance without any
mishap.

Captain Bell made signs that his belief that this was the Virgin was
confirmed when they reached the rail of the sunken vessel.

This was certainly encouraging, and all clambered aboard not without
some excitement.

The deck of the pirate ship was deeply covered with seaweed and
submarine growth.

But the remains of old cannon and their charges were visible, and much
of the paraphernalia of the ship was of an imperishable kind.

Even some of the bones of human skeletons were scattered about.

The Virgin had sunk, as Captain Bell had said, while in the heat of
action.

Therefore many of her fiendish crew had gone down with her.

But their bodies were, of course, much consumed with the action of the
water and of marine animals.

A brief inspection of the deck was made; but one and all were thinking
of the mighty wealth which undoubtedly existed below decks.

And Frank led the way down through the hatches.

The scene upon going into the cabin of the pirate ship was a thrilling
one.

Everywhere were skeletons in various positions, some expressing perfect
horror and agony, faithfully showing how the wretched souls had
departed.

But there was no article of special value in the first cabin.

Corroded cutlasses, muskets and other arms were lying about.

Leaving all this for later inspection Frank pushed forward into the
forward cabin.

Here was a horrible sight.

In the walls of the cabin were iron rings from which hung rusted iron
chains inclosing the skeletons of unfortunate prisoners.

It was a terrible thing to think of that these poor souls had thus gone
down to their death in utter helplessness.

In this cabin a way was found into the hold.

Frank went boldly into this, and was not a little surprised to find that
it was cleverly partitioned off in compartments.

Breaking in the door of one of these compartments, it was found to be
the powder magazine.

Here were tons of saltpetre, ruined, of course, by the action of the
water.

Frank put his helmet against the others and said:

“There was powder enough here to have blown the whole thing to the
zenith.”

“You are right,” agreed Von Bulow; “but the magazine was in too secure a
place to stand any chance of being fired.”

This was certainly true.

“Let us go on to the next compartment and find the treasure,” said
Captain Bell.

“If there is any on board,” said Von Bulow, who was skeptical.

“Of course there is,” declared Bell, with a positive air. “There is no
doubt of it.”

“I hope so,” rejoined the scientist.

“At least we will try and find it,” said Frank Reade, Jr. “Come along;
let us waste no time in argument.”

So, with this, they passed on through the hold. The result was that they
came to another compartment.

But the door of this was much stronger, and Frank was compelled to use
his ax to break it in.

The heavy iron hinges, however, were so rusted that it was not a hard
job.

But the sight that was revealed to the divers was an astounding one.

The compartment was, perhaps, a dozen feet square. On the floor there
was piled a huge heap of coin, almost as perfect as the day it was
placed there.

Chests were piled one upon another about the place.

For a moment the treasure hunters paused, overwhelmed at the sight.

At last the pirates’ treasure had been found. There was no doubt of
this.

Then their helmets came together.

“What did I tell you?” cried Bell, excitedly. “There are millions!”

“It looks like gold,” gasped Von Bulow.

“It is,” said Frank. “There is a mighty fortune in that heap! We are
favored of fortune.”

Then for a moment that peculiar malady, the gold fever, seemed to seize
all.

Even Frank Reade, Jr., who was wealthy enough, was constrained to fall
to counting the gold.

But this would have been an interminable task.

So, after handling it awhile, they desisted and began to break open the
chests which were piled about.

These were in part filled with clothing which was remarkably well
preserved, and consisted of gorgeous uniforms of all kinds, undoubtedly
spoils from the prize ships captured and preserved by Longboots, who, as
Captain Bell declared, was inordinately fond of rich display.

But one of the chests contained something else.




                             CHAPTER VIII.
                            THE EARTHQUAKE.


This consisted of heaps of rich jewels and precious stones.

There was a mighty fortune in these alone. They were eagerly examined by
the explorers.

The pirates’ treasure was certainly a magnificent one.

The find far exceeded the most sanguine expectations of any who were in
the party, particularly Prof. Von Bulow.

“It is beyond belief,” declared the scientist. “I cannot believe but
that I am dreaming.”

“No,” declared Captain Bell; “it is a reality. If you don’t believe me,
professor, allow me to punch you.”

“I will accept the fact and forego that test,” declared Prof. Von Bulow.
“But what shall we do with it?”

“What?”

“The treasure.”

“Take it aboard the submarine boat, of course; then we can return home
as princes and roll in wealth all the rest of our lives.”

Captain Bell’s eyes shone like stars.

It was evident that he set more by the treasure than the others. Frank
was wealthy, anyway, and Von Bulow was well-to-do.

Captain Bell, on the other hand, was poor, which explained all.

But before engaging in the transportation of the treasure to the Dart,
it was decided to carry the examination of the ship further.

This was done, and from one end to the other it was ransacked.

But nothing more of value was found.

At least nothing which could be transported. In the lower hold were
discovered many casks of rich wine. But it could not, of course, even be
removed.

So the party finally returned to the treasure chamber.

They took as much of the coin with them as they could carry, and started
to return to the Dart.

It was their intention to return later and make regular trips, until it
had been all transported aboard the Dart.

Leaving the sunken pirate they had soon reached the Dart.

Going aboard, they were met by Barney and Pomp.

The two jokers were wildly enthusiastic over the find.

“Begorra, it’ll make the whole av us millionaires,” cried Barney.
“Shure, I’ll wear a diamond in me shirt now as big as a cart wheel!”

“I done fink dis chile git married!” declared Pomp.

“Married!” declared Barney. “Shure, is it a Mormon yez are? Phwat’s the
matther wid yer prisint woife?”

“She jes’ don’ agree to agree wif me!” declared Pomp, succinctly. “And
the only point we’s sartain sure agreed on is not to agree fo’ to lib
togedder any more.”

“Oh, yez have a divorce, eh?”

Pomp looked scornful.

“Wha’ fo’ I want a divorce?” he retorted. “Don’ yo’ fink cullud people
am mo’ ’spectable dan dat?”

“But, begorra, the law wud make yez support her!”

“Golly, I don’ beliebe it. Dis chile hab got all he kin do to support
hisse’f. No, sah! I jist go down to Kyarline an’ I find jes’ de most
likely cullud gal I kin find dar. Den I say: Chloe, yo’ jes’ hitch
hosses wif dis chile an’ I make yo’ wear diamonds. See! Lor’ sakes,
chile! Money catch de best ob dem!”

“Begorra, it’s a bigamist ye’d be!” declared Barney, contemptuously. “If
yez do that, naygur, I’ll cut yez acquaintance.”

“Suit yo’sef, sah,” declared Pomp; “but atween yo’ an’ me, I don’
beliebe eider one ob us will leabe Marse Frank right away.”

“Yez are roight there,” cried Barney. “Shure, we’ll sthick to Misther
Frank, for all av the foine gold.”

Plans were at once made to transport the treasure to the Dart.

But an incident now transpired to put a stop to the entire project. This
happening was a most startling and unlooked for one.

Suddenly the Dart received a shock which seemed to fairly hoist it a
dozen feet from the bottom of the sea.

Everybody on board were thrown from their feet.

Then followed a distant rumble and a vibrating motion which lasted for
full a minute.

In some way the shock had disconnected the lever, and the electric
lights were extinguished.

All was darkness aboard the submarine boat.

For a few moments a literal panic reigned.

Frank Reade, Jr., was the first to recover.

He ran into the pilot-house and quickly produced light. By this time the
others had recovered.

“For the love of Heaven! what has happened?” gasped Von Bulow.

“We have been run into by a whale!” averred Captain Bell.

But Frank shook his head.

“No,” he said; “it is worse than that!”

The young inventor knew well enough what the trouble was.

“Well, what was it?” asked Von Bulow, rubbing his bruised shins.

“An earthquake,” replied Frank, calmly.

“An earthquake?”

“Yes.”

“Mercy on us! Is it possible?”

“You shall see.”

Frank quickly repaired the slight damage to the electric light
apparatus. Then he turned on the searchlight.

The region about was plainly illuminated, and it was seen that a great
change had taken place in the bed of the ocean.

In places it had been upheaved by the mighty forces of Nature, and vast
ravines were created.

All gazed in the direction of the treasure ship, and gave a start of
surprise and dismay.

“My goodness! What has become of it?” asked Von Bulow.

Captain Bell looked aghast.

“It has gone!”

“Disappeared!”

“Not a trace remains.”

This was true.

The Vestal Virgin had vanished as completely as if transported bodily to
another sphere. Only a mound of sand remained where it had been.

“Great Jericho!” exclaimed Captain Bell, in horror. “What has become of
it?”

“Golly, I done fink dat it hab been blowed to pieces!” declared Pomp.

“Bejabers, maybe it’s buried!” said Barney, at a venture.

“Yes,” replied Frank. “It has been buried by the earthquake. No doubt
the great revulsion of Nature’s forces has covered it many feet deep
with sand.”

“And the treasure ——” began Von Bulow.

“Is gone!” groaned Bell.

For a time there was a painful silence.

All stood looking at each other with dismay depicted upon their faces.
Bell was now completely disgusted.

“It’s only a sample of my dad-gasted luck,” he declared. “Every time I
get a fortune within my grasp it is whisked away.”

“Hard luck,” said Frank.

“Perhaps we can dig down to the wreck,” ventured Von Bulow.

But Frank shook his head.

“I’m afraid the pirates’ gold will never do any human being any good,”
he declared. “It’s buried forever.”

Captain Bell was completely overwhelmed.

He was so confident from the first of reclaiming the treasure, that it
was a terrible disappointment.

But Frank said, cheerily:

“Don’t get downcast, captain. Perhaps we may find another treasure ship
somewhere in the Atlantic Valley.”

Bell’s face brightened.

“Do you think so?” he asked.

“It is not at all impossible.”

But the captain shook his head.

“If we do,” he said, “I would have no just claim upon it. It would be
yours.”

“You shall have your share,” replied Frank; “so cheer up, man.”

The captain became a little more cheerful. Von Bulow, on the whole, did
not care greatly.

But Frank yielded to Bell’s desire to first inspect the spot where the
pirate ship was buried.

There was a lingering hope in the captain’s mind that the treasure might
yet be reached.

So Frank and Bell put on diving suits and went out to examine the
locality.

The work accomplished by the earthquake was marvelous.

It seemed as if the whole bed of the ocean had undergone a
transformation.

Great hills and ridges were raised, deep valleys created, and countless
forms of fish and marine life lay dead upon the white sands.

Truly, it had been a terrible action of Nature’s forces. The Vestal
Virgin had seemed to literally sink into the shifting sands which now
were high over her.

It was a wonder that the Dart had not been buried also.

But she had rested upon a more rocky and solid foundation.

Bell was wholly satisfied that the treasure could never be recovered.

“I give it up,” he declared. “Let us go back.”

They were soon aboard the Dart again. Frank took his bearings as well as
he could. He was not exactly sure whether he was half way through the
valley or not.

It was, however, decided to go on and explore the valley thoroughly.
Then they would make for the English Channel and pay a visit to London
and the Thames.

The spirits of all revived greatly.

The Dart once more shot forward on her way. A good outlook was kept for
sunken vessels.

“We will search every one of them we find,” declared Frank. “There
certainly are vast treasures under the sea, and we are not brilliant if
we do not find them.”

This revived Bell’s hopes greatly, and he was once more glib and gay.

For miles, however, the Dart now sailed on over unknown depths into
which it was not safe to descend.

These were the lowermost depths of the great deep where the pressure
would be so great that a huge ship sunken there would be crushed into a
shapeless mass.

But it was not likely that many interesting things would be found down
there even if the Dart was able to go.

So none were much disappointed.

The sea soon began to change again.

The water seemed a peculiar olive tint, and Frank, who had studied the
phenomena, said:

“We are coming to a submarine forest. You shall see.”

His prediction proved correct.

Soon the tops of trees were seen far below. At least they looked like
trees, with branches, foliage and all, but Frank said:

“It is a queer coral formation. A very common mistake is made by divers
who consider them petrified.”

Von Bulow was deeply interested in the submarine forest.

But soon a new scene spread before their view.

It was such a scene as none of them had ever seen before.

One and all gave expression to startled cries of interest and
wonderment, and Frank slackened speed.




                              CHAPTER IX.
                            THE SUNKEN CITY.


“A city under the sea!” cried Prof. Von Bulow. “Wonderful thing!”

All gazed upon what certainly seemed to be a mighty city, built upon a
plain.

Mighty buildings lined wide streets, which traversed the plain in every
direction.

There were minarets and spires, domes and obelisks and huge public
squares with giant statuary.

The city, buildings, streets, and all, were as white as driven snow. It
was a most bewildering sight.

But all was as quiet and deserted as the tomb.

It was a city without people.

Frank brought the Dart to a stop, and all gazed upon the scene for a
time with deep interest.

“The lost Atlantis!” declared Prof. Von Bulow. “It is not a myth, after
all.”

“Do you suppose there is any treasure in the place?” asked Captain Bell,
with sudden inspiration.

All laughed at this, and Frank said:

“Bell, you will yet gain the reputation of treasure hunter.”

“That is what I am,” acknowledged the captain. “I have been hunting for
a fortune all my life, and I mean to have it before I die, if I have
luck.”

“Which I hope you will.”

“I shall not give up trying.”

“Well,” said Von Bulow, wistfully, “are we to pay a visit of exploration
to that city or not?”

“I think we will,” replied Frank. “I shall sail the Dart down into that
large square in the center. It looks like a central point.”

“So it is,” cried the scientist, joyfully. “Oh, what a splendid
opportunity to advance exploration now!”

No time was lost.

The Dart was allowed to sail down into the large square in the heart of
the sunken city.

Here it was securely anchored, and all the explorers were now brought in
close proximity to the buildings.

And these were of a wonderful style of architecture, and their white
color did not arise from the nature of the stone employed, but, as was
now seen, owing to a thick formation of coral which encrusted all.

It was a scene of great beauty, and all gazed upon it spellbound.

But Von Bulow was anxious to begin work at once.

So after arrangements had been hastily concluded the party donned diving
suits and set out for a “walk about town.”

Only one was left aboard the Dart, and this was Pomp.

Truly it was a novel experience to walk the streets of a submarine city,
but such it was.

The city was evidently constructed long before the days of Moses and the
patriarchs, and was an excellent bit of proof of the existence of quite
an advanced stage of civilization in that part of the world at that
time.

The explorers could almost fancy the shops still filled with rich goods
and stuffs in vogue then.

They could imagine the appearance the city must have borne when its
streets were thronged with busy people, and all was life and activity.

Truly it was a wonderful thing to think of.

But that such a state of affairs did once exist there was no doubt.

Across the great paved square the explorers walked.

Before them swam beautiful vari-colored fish.

At their feet crept crabs and shell fish of a strange and beautiful
variety.

Before them was a mighty building which seemed to have once been a
palace or temple.

“Let us explore that,” said Von Bulow, in signs.

The others nodded an acquiescence.

Frank and Barney, armed with axes, led the way into the temple. They
passed through a high arched door.

It was a mammoth hall with high pillars of stone which they now stood
in.

There was a grandeur about the mammoth structure which reminded one of
the Roman temples in Italy.

The hall had evidently been some sort of a public auditorium or council
chamber.

At the lower end was a dais of stone, and upon it was a high chair or
throne of the same material.

But all articles of furniture or decoration which had been made of wood
or the metals were gone.

Undoubtedly the worm of decay had long since eaten them up.

Neither were there any skeletons or like remains of human beings to be
found.

When it was remembered that this city was perhaps twenty centuries old,
this was not to be wondered at.

Passing through the temple, the explorers came to a spacious court,
beyond which was a peristyle.

Whoever the inhabitants of the ancient city had been, they were
certainly a people of gifts and much genius.

This was evident in the construction and architecture of the city.

It was a magnificent monument to their great talents, and though buried
under the sea many leagues would yet exist through all time.

Beyond the peristyle court the explorers came to a mighty marble paved
basin, which had evidently been a bath or large lake.

From one part of the sunken city to another the explorers wandered.

Upon every hand new sights were seen and new wonders unfolded.

Upon one building was a marine growth greatly resembling English ivy. It
had a most beautiful effect.

Every building had its colony of submarine creatures.

There were all manner of rainbow-hued fish, and monster eels like huge
serpents wriggling in the sand. But thus far nothing had been
encountered of a dangerous size and character.

For miles the explorers walked in the glare of the searchlight, which
quite illumined the whole city.

At length, however, it was decided to return.

Von Bulow was highly delighted with the result of the expedition.

He had recovered many valuable specimens and was in high feather.

But Captain Bell was disappointed.

There had been no sign of a treasure about the sunken city.

If gold had ever existed there, time and the water had consumed it,
beyond a doubt.

Without mishap the party reached the Dart in safety.

Pomp had a rousing, hearty meal ready for them, of which all partook
with avidity.

Then they fell to discussing the situation.

“It is established beyond all doubt,” said Von Bulow, “that this part of
the Atlantic was once a continent above the sea.”

“That seems certain,” agreed Frank; “and it was undoubtedly inhabited by
a most powerful nation.”

“But though we may see this evidence of their handiwork, we do not know
how they may have looked.”

“I imagine that they resembled the ancient Greeks,” said Captain Bell;
“though I have no particular reason for that idea.”

“There was an old tradition among the Mediterranean sailors that to the
west of the coast of Spain was a great continent known as Atlantis, and
inhabited by a powerful and intelligent race of people.”

“Then it was no myth, but the truth,” cried Von Bulow. “We have indeed
found the lost Atlantis.”

“Be not so sure,” said Frank.

“Why?”

“The continent may have been only an island, and this is possibly the
only city upon it.”

All reflected that this might be true.

Thus the discussion progressed for some time, no definite conclusion
being reached.

At length it was decided to leave the sunken city and proceed on the way
to the end of the valley.

Accordingly Frank went into the pilot-house and started the Dart.

The submarine boat floated away over the housetops and soon left the
sunken city behind.

As the Dart went on now many traces of a once powerful civilization were
to be seen.

There were many buildings which might have been country houses or farms
once.

Also there were actually seen traces of roads and paths and many other
things to prove that this had been a nation above the surface.

For many miles this sort of thing continued.

Then the Dart came once more to a wild and desolate expanse of sand.

It extended many miles.

Frank held the Dart down for a close run over this.

He hoped then to reach a point in the Atlantic Valley which was merely
an island in the midst of the vast water.

On the chart the island was known under the name of Gull Island. Here
Frank had thought of going to the surface for a brief time.

For hours the submarine boat ran on at full speed.

The bed of the sea here afforded no new features for study, and Von
Bulow had no desire to stop.

So the Dart kept on until at length the end of the plain was reached.

Then there came a rocky and rough region entirely different from that
which Frank had expected.

“How is this?” he exclaimed, in surprise. “Where is Gull Island?”

Once more he examined the chart.

As near as Frank could reckon, he ought to be just at the spot where
Gull Island should be.

But instead, the water seemed deeper here than anywhere else. There
surely was no sign of an island.

Of course it was not possible to take bearings in the usual way, being
so far under the sea.

“Bejabers, it’s off our course we are, Misther Frank!” said Barney.

“I’m afraid you are right, Barney,” agreed the young inventor. “What
shall we do about it?”

“Go to the surface and make sure where we are,” said Von Bulow. “It
won’t do any of us harm to take another look at the sky and the outer
air.”

“You are right,” said Frank, with sudden decision. “We will do it.”

With which the young inventor went into the pilot-house and opened wide
the pneumatic valve, which expelled the water from the tank.

This should cause the Dart to at once rise to the surface. But it did
not.

It arose twenty feet or more, and then stopped with a jar. Frank was
dumbfounded. What did it mean?

Again he opened the valve.

But it was of no use. The boat would not go up a single peg further.
Here was a dilemma.




                               CHAPTER X.
                         BURIED UNDER THE SEA.


Frank Reade, Jr., was greatly puzzled at this very singular action of
the pneumatic valve.

“What is the matter?” he exclaimed in sheer astonishment. “Something is
wrong somewhere.”

He went hurriedly below and examined the electrical apparatus.

It seemed to be all right.

Then he went into the tank-room and instantly saw what was the matter.

It gave him a shock.

The outer lining of the tank had become perforated, and water had
flooded the forward compartment.

This was of sufficient weight to hold the boat in suspension.

It could be sunk by letting water into the tank as usual.

But though the tank was emptied as readily as usual, it was not
sufficient in buoyancy to carry the boat to the surface.

In other words, the extra water in the forward compartment overcame this
needed buoyancy and held the Dart in suspension.

It was most unfortunate that the water had invaded this part of the
boat.

Frank was bathed in a cold perspiration. He knew that it was impossible
to expel this water by any ordinary means.

It would be necessary for the Dart to reach the surface in order to do
this.

As matters stood then the submarine boat would never be able to reach
the surface again. It was buried forever at the bottom of the sea.

Confronted by this almost appalling truth, Frank Reade, Jr., stood
aghast.

Not until footsteps sounded in his ears did he recover.

The other voyagers had come down to join him.

“Well, Frank, have you found out what is the matter?” asked Von Bulow.

“Yes,” replied the inventor.

“What?”

“We are lost!”

“Lost?”

“Yes; buried forever at the bottom of the ocean. Truly lost in the great
Atlantic Valley!”

Stupefied with horror at these words, the others were for a time unable
to speak.

Then Frank proceeded to explain the situation exactly.

It was a terrible truth.

“Great Heaven!” exclaimed Captain Bell; “then the Dart can never again
reach the surface!”

“Never!”

“And we must die in these depths?”

“We won’t say that,” said Frank, resolutely. “The Dart will never return
to the upper world, but I shall try and devise a method by which we
may.”

With this the young inventor went into his own cabin.

He was in earnest in his purpose. A hundred different plans occurred.

With their bearings lost he knew not what direction to take to reach the
upward slope of the shore of some island or continent.

If this could be done there would be a chance for escape, as they could
leave the Dart, and in their diving suits stand a good chance of
reaching land.

But the quest for the land must be a random one.

In such a vast space they might cruise about for months, possibly for a
lifetime, without chancing to reach shore.

Every possible expedient to reach the upper air was considered by Frank.

But he could think of no better plan than to attempt the random quest
for a shore.

He consulted with the others.

“That seems the only logical plan,” he said. “We may succeed very
quickly and we may not.”

“I think we had better adopt it,” said Captain Bell.

“But what a pity that we should be obliged to leave this wonderful
invention behind us.”

“Never mind that,” said Frank.

“I suppose you can build another one.”

“If I do I shall provide for the contingency which has just arisen.”

“Begorra, it was the earthquake shock that did it,” declared Barney.
“Shure, it was enough to break anything.”

“I agree with you there, Barney,” agreed Frank.

But Pomp, who had been listening with interest, now came forward.

“Shuah, now, yo chillun hab not got de right plan,” he declared. “Jes’
yo’ heah what dis chile hab to say.”

“Well, Pomp,” said Frank; “what is it?”

“If yo’ wants jes’ to git to de surface why don’t yo’ swim?”

“Swim?”

“Yas, sah! Dat am a berry easy mattah. Jes swim up!”

Everybody looked at Pomp in surprise for a moment, and then laughed.

“I am afraid your plan is not the best kind of a one,” declared Frank.
“It would be of little use to gain the surface and have no ship there to
pick you up, or be out of sight of land. I am afraid you would come down
for a permanent thing.”

Pomp looked somewhat aggrieved, at which Barney began to jolly him.

“Begorra, yez are a ganius, naygur!” he cried, hilariously. “Shure, yez
take the cake. That’s a foine plan yez have!”

Pomp was angry.

“Shut up, yo’ no ’count I’ishman!” he cried, indignantly. “Yo’ amn’t got
no plan fo’ to propose at all.”

“Bejabers, I’d rather not have thin to put out the loikes av that,”
roared Barney. “It’s a foine brain yez have!”

Pomp made a dive for Barney, but the Celt dodged him.

There would have been a lively ruction between the two, however, but for
Frank, who checked them.

“Hold on!” he cried. “None of that. We have too many serious matters on
hand just now.”

So the two jokers refrained from any more of this sort of thing. All
returned to the cabin.

Bell was exceedingly uneasy.

“I think we made a mistake in coming on this expedition,” he said. “We
have sacrificed our lives and gained nothing!”

“You cannot say that,” said Von Bulow. “I have gained many valuable
discoveries for science.”

“Which science will never get.”

“Yet, if I die now, I shall not feel that I have thrown my life away.”

“I don’t see how you regard it in that light. My wife told me I would
meet disaster. I had ought to have stayed at home.”

“Shure ye had ought to,” said Barney, bluntly.

“You don’t mean to insult me?” flashed the captain.

“Bejabers, thot wud be impossible!”

“What do you mean?”

But Frank put an end to the jar quickly.

“Tut, tut!” he cried. “Don’t let me hear anything of that kind. This is
a poor time for quarreling!”

“I am sure,” said Von Bulow; “I think we are well fixed for the
emergency before us.”

“So do I,” said Frank; “the chances for our own escape are very good.”

“About one in a million,” said Bell, sarcastically.

“At least we can preserve life for a good long period aboard the Dart,”
said Von Bulow. “We have provisions enough for a year, eh, Frank?”

“I think so,” agreed the young inventor. “And much longer if we
economize.”

“But we could never live a year in these close quarters on this
artificial air,” growled Bell.

This was the real horror of their situation. It was not at all unlikely
that the chemicals would give out before many weeks.

It was liable to give out at any time, and then a horrible death by
asphyxiation must be the result.

Truly this was a dreadful thing to contemplate.

But Frank compressed his lips tightly and went resolutely into the
pilot-house.

As nearly as he was able to plan it, he started the Dart in what he
believed was a direct course out of the valley.

The boat shot onward through the water like an arrow.

Miles were covered, but yet there was no indication that they were
approaching a coast.

A week passed thus.

It was a period of anxiety, of mental worriment and of almost despair.

Heretofore no thought had been given to the chemical generators, for had
they failed it was always known that a supply of fresh air could be
obtained by almost instantly rising to the surface.

But now that it seemed certain that the boat could not rise, all
depended upon the efficacy of the generators.

Thus far they had evinced no signs of giving out. Yet there was the
dreadful uncertainty.

In every other respect except that of buoyancy the Dart seemed as
seaworthy as ever.

She made rapid speed through the limitless waste of water, and her
engines worked to perfection.

But it did not seem possible that the vessel could long proceed without
coming to land in some direction.

Yet there was the fatal possibility of traveling about in a mighty
circle for an indefinite length of time.

The keenest outlook was kept, and the spirits of all on board the Dart
were much in the same channel.

There was the same strained, anxious feeling, the dreadful sense of
uncertainty, the horror of impending death in an awful form.

Barney was constantly at the wheel in the pilot-house, keeping the
keenest sort of an outlook.

And one day there was seen to be a sudden change in the color of the sea
water.

All noticed it with a thrill, and a great cry went up.

“We are coming to land!”

The peculiar greenish hue, and many significant changes in the character
of the ocean bed would seem to indicate this to be a certain fact.

At once all became excitement.

Everybody crowded to the windows and kept a lookout for—what they hardly
knew, unless it might be some certain indication of land.

Suddenly the Dart came to a stop.

She was facing a succession of ascending reefs. Further progress in that
direction was barred.

But all were confident.

“I tell you we are close to land,” cried Von Bulow.

“We have only to ascend those reefs to reach it,” declared Bell.

But Frank Reade, Jr., was not so sanguine.

“We shall see,” he said. “Put out the anchors.”

Barney and Pomp hastened to do this. The Dart rested upon the verge of
one of the reefs.

Then preparations were quickly made for leaving the Dart.

The diving suits were quickly on hand and all were soon in readiness.




                              CHAPTER XI.
                              ON THE REEF.


Not one of the party but felt quite confident that they would soon stand
on terra firma above the sea.

There was every indication that land was just before them.

“Bejabers, I hope its a civilized land we’ll foind, and divil a
cannibal,” said Barney. “I’ve no taste for bein’ ate up in mishtake fer
a lobster as soon as iver I cum out av the wather!”

“Golly, dey would neber eat yo’ fo’ dat, I’ish!” grunted Pomp. “I’se
dead suah ob dat.”

“Shure, they’d run for their loives if iver they saw you coming out av
the say.”

But there was no time for argument, so it was dropped for the time
being, and all made ready.

The Dart was securely anchored, and then lots were drawn to see who
should remain aboard.

As chance had it, it fell to the lot of Captain Bell.

The terrified captain turned white as a corpse and groaned aloud.

Barney saw this and said:

“Shure, sor, yez kin go along with the rist. I’ll sthay.”

And so the cowardly captain was relieved in a measure of his fears. But
the respect of the others for him was greatly diminished.

However, Frank had arranged it so that the one left aboard the Dart
should not be cut off from communication with the others.

He carried a small spool of thin wire and a battery.

As he would proceed, this could be paid out, and with a small ticker a
message could be easily sent to the Dart.

This was a certain way of informing Barney when they should reach the
land, and also the Celt could easier gain the shore by simply following
up the wire.

The searchlight’s glare was thrown as far as possible up over the reefs,
so that the course could easily be seen.

If the shore was successfully reached and it was not far distant, all of
the valuable effects of the Dart could thus be saved.

At last all was ready, and then the party left the anchored boat.

Quickly they began to climb the reefs.

Up and up they went.

It was fearfully slow work, and they were obliged to pause many times to
rest.

But at length they saw what they believed was the light of day above.

Then the reefs began to assume a smoother character.

There was a regular motion to the waves, which was a certainty that they
were nearing the surface.

Frank Reade, Jr., and Pomp were in the advance.

Indeed, they would have reached the surface much quicker but for the
necessity of constantly turning to look out for the two older men.

They came along more slowly.

In fact, Bell was hardly able to climb the reefs.

But after awhile the motion of the water became such that they were able
plainly to realize that the surface was but a few feet above.

Frank was the first to emerge from the water. His head came above the
surface suddenly. He looked about.

The scene which met his gaze was far different from what he had
expected.

There was no long line of coast, no inviting shore with tropical foliage
and high cliffs of stone.

Naught but the dreary, boundless, tossing waste of waters was to be seen
as far as the eye could reach.

The reef cropped up just high enough so that the lightest waves combed
over it. Frank crawled upon it and stood in several inches of water.

It was a solitary reef in the midst of the ocean.

Just this and nothing more. So far as offering an asylum or means of
rescue to the explorers, this was out of the question.

It would not be even safe for them to remain upon the reef long.

For a stiff gale was threatening, and they could hardly hope to cling to
the reef without harm.

Not a sail was in sight. Neither was there much likelihood that this was
in the path of sailing vessels, else it would have been marked with a
buoy.

All drew themselves out of the water and stood for a time upon the
submerged reef looking blankly around.

They removed their helmets, and for the first time in many weeks took a
breath of pure air.

“Well, this is not just what we expected, is it?” said Frank.

“Well, hardly,” growled Bell. “I tell you luck is against me.”

“Against you?” asked Von Bulow.

“Yes.”

“Why you more than the rest of us?”

“It’s harder for me.”

“Well,” said the scientist, emphatically, “I can’t agree with you. Take
my advice, Bell. Think less of yourself and you will be more cheerful.”

The captain did not see fit to reply to this shot, which was a telling
and deserved one.

“Golly, Marse Frank!” cried Pomp, as he looked about, “I don’t fink we
cud swim dat stretch berry easy.”

“No, I think not,” agreed Frank. “It is a little too vast.”

Then the situation was discussed.

“I don’t see that we have gained anything by this discovery,” said Von
Bulow. “Have we?”

“Not a thing,” agreed Frank.

“We are no better off than before.”

“But very little.”

“Do you think there is any possibility of hailing a passing vessel?”

“There is perhaps in time. It may be a lifetime, though.”

“Then we had better return to the Dart and make another try.”

“Yes.”

“Hold on!” said Bell. “I object to that.”

“Oh, do you?”

“Yes.”

“What plan have you to propose?”

“Stay right here and look for a passing ship. Set a signal. If we go
back to the bottom of the sea we’ll never find land again.”

“But we must take the chances.”

“They are against us.”

“Yet I think they are the best.”

Captain Bell demurred, but the majority were with Frank Reade, Jr., and
they ruled.

It was decided to return at once to the Dart.

Then they would go again in quest of land.

“I feel sure we shall succeed,” said Frank. “It is only a question of
time.”

“I shall-not go!” said Bell, obdurately. “You may if you choose!”

“What!” cried Frank, in surprise; “you mean to remain here?”

“Yes.”

All looked astonished.

“That will be suicide.”

“Then you will be responsible for my life!”

Frank looked at Von Bulow, and the latter winked.

“Come on, friends,” he said; “we wish you luck, captain. No doubt you
will succeed in hailing a ship.”

Von Bulow proceeded to adjust his helmet. The others did the same and
slid under the water.

Half-way down the reef Von Bulow pressed Frank’s arm.

The young inventor looked back.

Bell was just behind.

The captain’s little game of bluff did not work worth a cent. Everybody
was onto his ways after that.

Very soon the glare of the searchlight was seen below.

Frank had signaled Barney several times, and knew that all was well.

Very soon the party came in sight of the Dart.

Then they safely reached the vestibule and were soon in the cabin after
some thrilling experiences.

Another discussion was now held as to what it was best to do.

Frank settled it by going into the pilot-house and backing the Dart off
the reef.

Then he started to make a circuit of the reef.

Suddenly, as the boat was gliding smoothly along, an object loomed up in
the gloom.

The searchlight was brought to bear upon it, and it was seen to be a
sunken hulk.

No doubt it had fallen a victim to the treacherous reef.

“A sunken vessel!” cried Von Bulow. “Here, Bell, here’s a chance to get
your treasure.”

The captain was now all eagerness.

“Hurrah!” he cried; “that is so!”

Frank brought the Dart to a stop.

“Golly, Marse Frank!” exclaimed Pomp, in surprise, “am yo’ gwine to
visit dat wreck?”

“Yes,” replied Frank.

“Wha’ fo’, sah?”

“To satisfy Captain Bell.”

“But fo’ goodness sake, sah, if dar was any treasure on bo’d, yo’ cudn’t
take it away wif yo’!”

But Frank’s word was law; the Dart was anchored.

“Barney,” he said, “you and the captain may go. Look out for the
captain.”

“All right, sor.”

Captain Bell was elated.

He had a queer sort of mania for treasure hunting, and he forgot all
about the perils lately threatening in this desire.

Barney was not loth to go.

The Celt was inordinately fond of adventure, and here was a chance to
distinguish himself.

So he put on his diving suit, and with Captain Bell left the Dart.

They soon reached the wreck and clambered aboard.

She was evidently some sort of a trading vessel, and had not been many
months under the water.

Her rigging and spars were strewn about the deck.

There was every indication that she had gone down in a storm, and by
striking on the reef.

Barney put his helmet close to Bell’s and cried:

“Shure phwat do yez think av it now, me frind?”

“I don’t know hardly,” replied Bell. “It looks to me as if she was a
trader.”

“Yis, sor.”

“But there may be treasure aboard her, all the same.”

“Yez are roight!”

“We will take a good look.”

“I’m wid yez.”

“Let us go down into the cabin.”

“Lead on, sor.”

This Bell proceeded to do.

He led the way to the hatch, and then began to descend the stairs.

All had been dark in the cabin, but the lights on their helmets
displaced the gloom.

And as they reached the bottom stair and their helmet lights illumined
the place, a horrible sight was revealed.

The cabin seemed literally filled with dead bodies.




                              CHAPTER XII.
                          A FEARFUL SITUATION.


These were bloated and swelled to a horrible extent by the water.

They had in many cases become decomposed, but many of them floated and,
attracted by the current caused by the entrance of the divers, came
straight toward them.

Then Barney made a dash for the next cabin.

Bell followed him.

And then the bodies, attracted again by the current, came piling after
them.

Bell shrieked and flung the cabin door shut behind him.

This shut off pursuit.

The two terrified divers were in the second cabin.

Barney drew close to Bell and shouted:

“Begorra, if they’d been aloive I’d not have been afraid av thim!”

“Nor I,” agreed Bell; “but I am mighty afraid of a dead man under the
water. It is horrible!”

“Begorra, ye’re roight. Shure, we’d niver make soldiers.”

“I don’t care if we don’t, if we only find the treasure.”

“Do you believe there’s any aboord av this ship?”

“Of course I do.”

“Phwere the divil will we foind it, thin, I’d loike to know?”

“Probably in the captain’s cabin.”

“An’ that’s jest forward av this?”

“Yes.”

“Begorra, let’s go there!”

“We will.”

With which Bell opened the door leading into the captain’s cabin. As he
did so he gave a great start of horror.

Grasping the knob of the door upon the other side was the corpse of a
man.

The captain gave a yell and bolted to the other end of the cabin.

But he finally recovered himself sufficiently to see that the corpse had
not followed him.

He also saw that it had not the power to do so. The grip of its fingers
upon idle knob held it.

The dead man undoubtedly was the captain of the brig. Bell made a motion
to Barney, who came near.

“We are fools,” he said. “These dead people can’t hurt us!”

“Arrah, but it’s the looks av thim!” declared Barney.

“Hang the looks! They can’t kill. Let us go into the cabin.”

“I’m agreeable, sor.”

“There is no doubt but that he is the captain of the ship.”

“Yis, sor.”

“Then, if there is any treasure aboard, it is in his cabin.”

“I believe yez.”

With this Bell hesitated no longer. He boldly arose and approached the
door.

The corpse swung toward him, and he hesitated a moment.

But he quickly recovered and summoned up enough courage to push it
aside. Then he entered the compartment.

The captain’s cabin was richly furnished, and in one corner was a huge
steel safe.

As luck had it, this appeared to be open. Bell advanced and peered in.

And as he did so, he gave a gasping cry which brought Barney to the
spot.

“Look!” he cried. “It is gold!”

There were a number of small white bags piled upon the floor of the
safe. Upon each of these was a figure of value.

Bell took up one of these and opened it. A heap of shining coin rolled
out upon the floor.

They were American eagles. Upon the bag was the mark, five hundred
dollars.

“What a find!” gasped Bell. “There are fully two hundred of these bags;
at least one hundred thousand dollars in gold. That is not equal to the
treasure of the Vestal Virgin, but it will do.”

“Begorra, I should say so,” agreed the Celt.

“It will make me rich after a fair division,” declared Bell. “We must
get it aboard the Dart at once.”

It was a trying ordeal to pass through the next cabin with its
complement of grinning corpses.

But the two treasure hunters did so, and they reached the deck in
safety.

The glare of the searchlight was full upon them, and those on board the
Dart were waiting for them to appear.

When they did come in sight, they were seen to be bearing the bags of
gold.

“Hurrah!” cried Von Bulow. “Bell has got his treasure!”

“You’re right,” agreed Frank.

“But what good will it do him?”

“No good, unless he can get it ashore, which is not likely.”

Barney and Bell now came hastily toward the Dart.

A moment later they were in the vestibule.

The water was expelled, and then they staggered into the cabin.

They dropped their precious load upon the floor of the cabin, and then
removed their helmets quickly.

“Well,” cried Frank; “you made a rich find?”

“You’re right we did!” cried Bell, with great jubilance. “There is more
left there—fully a hundred thousand dollars, and we want to rig up some
way to get it.”

“That will be easy,” said Frank.

“What!” exclaimed Von Bulow, disappointedly. “Shall we waste the time?”

“It is a large treasure,” he said. “I am going to get it and take it
ashore.”

“I hope you will,” said Von Bulow, dubiously.

Frank and Pomp now put on diving suits and went with Barney and Bell
aboard the brig.

They soon succeeded in conveying the one hundred bags aboard the Dart.

Then the gold was all poured out in a heap and counted.

There was fully one hundred thousand dollars. It was a rich find.

Bell occupied himself in counting the gold and replacing it in the bags.

Then the Dart once more went on its way.

The reef was left far behind. Days passed and the Dart still kept on her
swift course.

Still there was no sign of land.

The situation had become a hundred-fold more serious. Every moment
matters were becoming more complicated.

In the first place the water supply had given out.

Then the chemical generators began to show signs of failing.

The appalling truth was presented to the submarine travelers that every
moment was drawing them rapidly nearer to the end.

Their lives would be cut short very speedily unless land was reached at
no very distant time.

Bell was in a fearful state of mind.

He had earned and well merited the euphonious name of “kicker,” and in
many ways excited the ire of the others.

“There’s one thing about it, Bell,” said Von Bulow, severely, “nothing
is to be gained by your chronic fault-finding. We shall get out of the
woods no sooner.”

“I suppose I lack your sublime philosophy which enables you to meet fate
with supreme indifference,” sneered Bell.

“I’m not a kicker, anyway!” averred Von Bulow.

Frank meanwhile was busily trying to find some way out of the dilemma.

The young inventor studied plan after plan, but without hitting upon
anything at all favorable.

At length he came in from the chemical room one day with a white face.

“Shure, what is it, sor?” asked Barney, with alarm.

“We have but a few more hours to live,” said Frank, with a ghastly
smile.

The fearless Irishman scratched his head coolly and said:

“Faith, an’ I don’t think we’d betther tell the others.”

“Ah, but that would not be right.”

“Shure, if that Captain Bell knows av it he’ll have a fit.”

A short while later all were congregated in the cabin and Frank told
them the exact truth.

Contrary to the general expectation, Captain Bell was singularly silent.

After awhile he came to Frank and said:

“Do you give up all hope?”

“I fear so,” said Frank.

“I don’t.”

“What do you mean?”

“I think we are very near land at this moment.”

“I see no indication of it,” said Frank.

“Then you are blind. I have seen many. How long will our diving
generators last?”

“Well charged, twenty-four hours.”

“Let us get them ready, and when the Dart’s generators fail us let us
leave her and strike out.”

It was the most forlorn hope that Frank had ever heard of, but he at
once saw that it was the only one.




                             CHAPTER XIII.
                                THE END.


Still the Dart kept on her course.

Frank looked in vain for the signs of land described by Captain Bell. To
him they did not exist.

He had no means of knowing at what depth they were.

But he knew that their situation was hourly growing more critical.

Then Prof. Von Bulow came to him.

“I have a request to make.

“If you should succeed in reaching home alive tell my wife that I sent
her my love in my dying breath.”

Frank took the scientist’s hand.

“Of course I would do that,” he said. “But there is no more chance for
me to reach home safely than for you.”

“I understand,” said Von Bulow, sadly; “but it is a comfort to me.”

“Then I will promise,” said Frank.

Just at this moment came the climax.

Barney came running into the cabin with his face as pale as chalk.

“Misther Frank!” he cried, “the chemical generator has failed to worruk,
an’ the air is all going, sor!”

At once active measures were taken to meet the end.

The helmets were hurriedly brought and donned.

It was none too soon, for the air in the cabin was quickly exhausted.
Then the Dart came to a stop, for it was useless to attempt to run it
without the aid of the pneumatic engine.

The Dart was securely anchored, and then, as lightly equipped as
possible, the explorers set forth upon their apparently hopeless quest
for land.

On and on they wandered.

What seemed like an interminable period elapsed.

Still there was no sign of land.

Von Bulow had begun to give out.

All the others were more or less affected; at length the scientist sank
down helpless.

But at the eleventh hour rescue came.

Suddenly Barney sprang up with a sharp cry. It was not heard by the
others, but his action was seen.

He pointed to an object not many feet away and advancing toward them.

It was a man in a diver’s costume, with life line and rope. He came
toward them with astonishment.

Putting his helmet to Frank’s, he shouted:

“Who are you?”

“We are the crew of the submarine boat Dart.”

And Frank told his story, to which the diver listened with amazement.

“And I am John Frisbie, of the Thames Diving Company,” said the diver.
“I am down here looking for the brig Enterprise, sunk here two weeks
ago.”

“What part of the sea is this?” asked Frank.

“We are in the English Channel.”

What followed needs but a few words to relate.

Frank and the others were safely drawn up and aboard the English tug
Fortune. A few days later they were safe in London.

The great submarine expedition was at an end.

All hands returned to America.

Frank Reade, Jr., and Barney and Pomp went back to Readestown. Frank at
once began work upon a new invention.

Captain Bell recovered his gold by diving for it, but the Dart was never
raised, and to-day sleeps at the bottom of the English Channel.

And this, dear reader, brings to a propitious end our story of submarine
adventure.


                                THE END.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Read “FRANK READE, JR.’S DESERT EXPLORER; OR, THE UNDERGROUND CITY OF
THE SAHARA,” which will be the next number (36) of “The Frank Reade
Weekly Magazine.”

                  *       *       *       *       *

SPECIAL NOTICE: All back numbers of this weekly are always in print. If
you cannot obtain them from any newsdealer, send the price in money or
postage stamps by mail to FRANK TOUSEY, PUBLISHER, 24 UNION SQUARE, NEW
YORK, and you will receive the copies you order by return mail.




                    These Books Tell You Everything!

               A COMPLETE SET IS A REGULAR ENCYCLOPEDIA!


Each book consists of sixty-four page, printed on good paper, in clear
type and neatly bound in an attractive, illustrated cover. Most of the
books are also profusely illustrated, and all of the subjects treated
upon are explained in such a simple manner that any child can thoroughly
understand them. Look over the list as classified and see if you want to
know anything about the subjects mentioned.

THESE BOOKS ARE FOR SALE BY ALL NEWSDEALERS OR WILL BE SENT BY MAIL TO
ANY ADDRESS FROM THIS OFFICE ON RECEIPT OF PRICE, TEN CENTS EACH, OR ANY
THREE BOOKS FOR TWENTY-FIVE CENTS. POSTAGE STAMPS TAKEN THE SAME AS
MONEY. Address FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher, 24 Union Square, N.Y.

                               MESMERISM.

No. 81. HOW TO MESMERIZE.—Containing the most approved methods of
mesmerism; also how to cure all kinds of diseases by animal magnetism,
or, magnetic healing. By Prof. Leo Hugo Koch, A. C. S., author of “How
to Hypnotize,” etc.

                               PALMISTRY.

No. 82. HOW TO DO PALMISTRY.—Containing the most approved methods of
reading the lines on the hand, together with a full explanation of their
meaning. Also explaining phrenology, and the key for telling character
by the bumps on the head. By Leo Hugo Koch, A. C. S. Fully illustrated.

                               HYPNOTISM.

No. 83. HOW TO HYPNOTIZE.—Containing valuable and instructive
information regarding the science of hypnotism. Also explaining the most
approved methods which are employed by the leading hypnotists of the
world. By Leo Hugo Koch, A.C.S.

                               SPORTING.

No. 21. HOW TO HUNT AND FISH.—The most complete hunting and fishing
guide ever published. It contains full instructions about guns, hunting
dogs, traps, trapping and fishing, together with descriptions of game
and fish.

No. 26. HOW TO ROW, SAIL AND BUILD A BOAT.—Fully illustrated. Every boy
should know how to row and sail a boat. Full instructions are given in
this little book, together with instructions on swimming and riding,
companion sports to boating.

No. 47. HOW TO BREAK, RIDE AND DRIVE A HORSE.—A complete treatise on the
horse. Describing the most useful horses for business, the best horses
for the road; also valuable recipes for diseases peculiar to the horse.

No. 48. HOW TO BUILD AND SAIL CANOES.—A handy book for boys, containing,
full directions for constructing canoes and the most popular manner of
sailing them. Fully illustrated. By O. Stansfield Hicks.

                            FORTUNE TELLING.

No. 1. NAPOLEON’S ORACULUM AND DREAM BOOK.—Containing the great oracle
of human destiny; also the true meaning of almost any kind of dreams,
together with charms, ceremonies, and curious games of cards. A complete
book.

No. 23. HOW TO EXPLAIN DREAMS.—Everybody dreams, from the little child
to the aged man and woman. This little book gives the explanation to all
kinds of dreams, together with lucky and unlucky days, and “Napoleon’s
Oraculum,” the book of fate.

No. 28. HOW TO TELL FORTUNES.—Everyone is desirous of knowing what his
future life will bring forth, whether happiness or misery, wealth or
poverty. You can tell by a glance at this little book. Buy one and be
convinced. Tell your own fortune. Tell the fortune of your friends.

No. 76. HOW TO TELL FORTUNES BY THE HAND.—Containing rules for telling
fortunes by the aid of lines of the hand, or the secret of palmistry.
Also the secret of telling future events by aid of moles, marks, scars,
etc. Illustrated. By A. Anderson.

                               ATHLETIC.

No. 6. HOW TO BECOME AN ATHLETE.—Giving full instruction for the use of
dumb bells, Indian clubs, parallel bars, horizontal bars and various
other methods of developing a good, healthy muscle; containing over
sixty illustrations. Every boy can become strong and healthy by
following the instructions contained in this little book.

No. 10. HOW TO BOX.—The art of self-defense made easy. Containing over
thirty illustrations of guards, blows, and the different positions of a
good boxer. Every boy should obtain one of these useful and instructive
books, as it will teach you how to box without an instructor.

No. 25. HOW TO BECOME A GYMNAST.—Containing full instructions for all
kinds of gymnastic sports and athletic exercises. Embracing thirty-five
illustrations. By Professor W. Macdonald. A handy and useful book.

No. 34. HOW TO FENCE.—Containing full instruction for fencing and the
use of the broadsword; also instruction in archery. Described with
twenty-one practical illustrations, giving the best positions in
fencing. A complete book.

                           TRICKS WITH CARDS.

No. 51. HOW TO DO TRICKS WITH CARDS.—Containing explanations of the
general principles of sleight-of-hand applicable to card tricks; of card
tricks with ordinary cards, and not requiring sleight-of-hand; of tricks
involving sleight-of-hand, or the use of specially prepared cards. By
Professor Haffner. Illustrated.

No. 72. HOW TO DO SIXTY TRICKS WITH CARDS.—Embracing all of the latest
and most deceptive card tricks, with illustrations. By A. Anderson.

No. 77. HOW TO DO FORTY TRICKS WITH CARDS.—Containing deceptive Card
Tricks as performed by leading conjurors and magicians. Arranged for
home amusement. Fully illustrated.

                                 MAGIC.

No. 2. HOW TO DO TRICKS.—The great book of magic and card tricks,
containing full instruction on all the leading card tricks of the day,
also the most popular magical illusions as performed by our leading
magicians; every boy should obtain a copy of this book, as it will both
amuse and instruct.

No. 22. HOW TO DO SECOND SIGHT.—Heller’s second sight explained by his
former assistant, Fred Hunt, Jr. Explaining how the secret dialogues
were carried on between the magician and the boy on the stage; also
giving all the codes and signals. The only authentic explanation of
second sight.

No. 43. HOW TO BECOME A MAGICIAN.—Containing the grandest assortment of
magical illusions ever placed before the public. Also tricks with cards,
incantations, etc.

No. 68. HOW TO DO CHEMICAL TRICKS.—Containing over one hundred highly
amusing and instructive tricks with chemicals. By A. Anderson.
Handsomely illustrated.

No. 69. HOW TO DO SLEIGHT OF HAND.—Containing over fifty of the latest
and best tricks used by magicians. Also containing the secret of second
sight. Fully illustrated. By A. Anderson.

No. 70. HOW TO MAKE MAGIC TOYS.—Containing full directions for making
Magic Toys and devices of many kinds. By A. Anderson. Fully illustrated.

No. 73. HOW TO DO TRICKS WITH NUMBERS.—Showing many curious tricks with
figures and the magic of numbers. By A. Anderson. Fully illustrated.

No. 75. HOW TO BECOME A CONJUROR.—Containing tricks with Dominos, Dice,
Cups and Balls, Hats, etc. Embracing thirty-six illustrations. By A.
Anderson.

No. 78. HOW TO DO THE BLACK ART.—Containing a complete description of
the mysteries of Magic and Sleight of Hand, together with many wonderful
experiments. By A. Anderson. Illustrated.

                              MECHANICAL.

No. 29. HOW TO BECOME AN INVENTOR.—Every boy should know how inventions
originated. This book explains them all, giving examples in electricity,
hydraulics, magnetism, optics, pneumatics, mechanics, etc. The most
instructive book published.

No. 56. HOW TO BECOME AN ENGINEER.—Containing full instructions how to
proceed in order to become a locomotive engineer; also directions for
building a model locomotive; together with a full description of
everything an engineer should know.

No. 57. HOW TO MAKE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.—Full directions how to make a
Banjo, Violin, Zither, Æolian Harp, Xylophone and other musical
instruments; together with a brief description of nearly every musical
instrument used in ancient or modern times. Profusely illustrated. By
Algernon S. Fitzgerald, for twenty years bandmaster of the Royal Bengal
Marines.

No. 59. HOW TO MAKE A MAGIC LANTERN.—Containing a description of the
lantern, together with its history and invention. Also full directions
for its use and for painting slides. Handsomely illustrated. By John
Allen.

No. 71. HOW TO DO MECHANICAL TRICKS.—Containing complete instructions
for performing over sixty Mechanical Tricks. By A. Anderson. Fully
illustrated.

                            LETTER WRITING.

No. 11. HOW TO WRITE LOVE-LETTERS.—A most complete little book,
containing full directions for writing love-letters, and when to use
them, giving specimen letters for young and old.

No. 12. HOW TO WRITE LETTERS TO LADIES.—Giving complete instructions for
writing letters to ladies on all subjects; also letters of introduction,
notes and requests.

No. 24. HOW TO WRITE LETTERS TO GENTLEMEN.—Containing full directions
for writing to gentlemen on all subjects; also giving sample letters for
instruction.

No. 53. HOW TO WRITE LETTERS.—A wonderful little book, telling you how
to write to your sweetheart, your father, mother, sister, brother,
employer; and, in fact, everybody and anybody you wish to write to.
Every young man and every young lady in the land should have this book.

No. 74. HOW TO WRITE LETTERS CORRECTLY.—Containing full instructions for
writing letters on almost any subject; also rules for punctuation and
composition, with specimen letters.




                        THE LIBERTY BOYS OF ’76.


    A Weekly Magazine containing Stories of the American Revolution.

                            By HARRY MOORE.

These stories are based on actual facts and give a faithful account of
the exciting adventures of a brave band of American youths who were
always ready and willing to imperil their lives for the sake of helping
along the gallant cause of Independence. Every number will consist of 32
large pages of reading matter, bound in a beautiful colored cover.

                             LATEST ISSUES:

  52 The Liberty Boys’ Scare; or, A Miss as Good as a Mile.

  53 The Liberty Boys’ Danger; or, Foes on All Sides.

  54 The Liberty Boys’ Flight; or, A Very Narrow Escape.

  55 The Liberty Boys’ Strategy; or, Out-Generaling the Enemy.

  56 The Liberty Boys’ Warm Work; or, Showing the Redcoats How to
        Fight.

  57 The Liberty Boys’ “Push”; or, Bound to Get There.

  58 The Liberty Boys’ Desperate Charge; or, With “Mad Anthony” at
        Stony Point.

  59 The Liberty Boys’ Justice, And How They Dealt It Out.

  60 The Liberty Boys Bombarded; or, A Very Warm Time.

  61 The Liberty Boys’ Sealed Orders; or, Going it Blind.

  62 The Liberty Boys’ Daring Stroke; or, With “Light-Horse Harry” at
        Paulus Hook.

  63 The Liberty Boys’ Lively Times; or, Here, There and Everywhere.

  64 The Liberty Boys’ “Lone Hand”; or, Fighting Against Great Odds.

  65 The Liberty Boys’ Mascot; or, The Idol of the Company.

  66 The Liberty Boys’ Wrath; or, Going for the Redcoats Roughshod.

  67 The Liberty Boys’ Battle for Life; or, The Hardest Struggle of
        All.

  68 The Liberty Boys’ Lost; or, The Trap That Did Not Work.

  69 The Liberty Boys’ “Jonah”; or, The Youth Who “Queered”
        Everything.

  70 The Liberty Boys’ Decoy; or, Baiting the British.

  71 The Liberty Boys Lured; or, The Snare the Enemy Set.

  72 The Liberty Boys’ Ransom; or, In the Hands of the Tory Outlaws.

  73 The Liberty Boys as Sleuth-Hounds; or, Trailing Benedict Arnold.

  74 The Liberty Boys “Swoop”; or, Scattering the Redcoats Like Chaff.

  75 The Liberty Boys’ “Hot Time”; or, Lively Work in Old Virginia.

  76 The Liberty Boys’ Daring Scheme; or, Their Plot to Capture the
        King’s Son.

  77 The Liberty Boys’ Bold Move; or, Into the Enemy’s Country.

  78 The Liberty Boys’ Beacon Light; or, The Signal on the Mountain.

  79 The Liberty Boys’ Honor; or, The Promise That Was Kept.

  80 The Liberty Boys’ “Ten Strike”; or, Bowling the British Over.

  81 The Liberty Boys’ Gratitude, and How they Showed It.

  82 The Liberty Boys and the Georgia Giant; or, A Hard Man to Handle.

  83 The Liberty Boys’ Dead Line; or, “Cross it if You Dare!”

  84 The Liberty Boys “Hoo-Dooed”; or, Trouble at Every Turn.

  85 The Liberty Boys’ Leap for Life; or, The Light that Led Them.

  86 The Liberty Boys’ Indian Friend; or, The Redskin who Fought for
        Independence.

  87 The Liberty Boys “Going it Blind”; or, Taking Big Chances.

  88 The Liberty Boys’ Black Band; or, Bumping the British Hard.

  89 The Liberty Boys’ “Hurry Call”; or, A Wild Dash to Save a Friend.

  90 The Liberty Boys’ Guardian Angel; or, The Beautiful Maid of the
        Mountain.

  91 The Liberty Boys’ Brave Stand; or, Set Back but Not Defeated.

  92 The Liberty Boys “Treed”; or, Warm Work in the Tall Timber.

  93 The Liberty Boys’ Dare; or, Backing the British Down.

  94 The Liberty Boys’ Best Blows; or, Beating the British at
        Bennington.

  95 The Liberty Boys in New Jersey; or, Boxing the Ears of the
        British Lion.

  96 The Liberty Boys’ Daring: or, Not Afraid of Anything.

  97 The Liberty Boys’ Long March; or, The Move that Puzzled the
        British.

  98 The Liberty Boys’ Bold Front; or, Hot Times on Harlem Heights.

  99 The Liberty Boys in New York; or, Helping to Hold the Great City.

  100 The Liberty Boys’ Big Risk; or, Ready to Take Chances.

  101 The Liberty Boys’ Drag-Net; or, Hauling the Redcoats In.

  102 The Liberty Boys’ Lightning Work; or, Too Fast for the British.

  103 The Liberty Boys’ Lucky Blunder; or, The Mistake that Helped
        Them.

  104 The Liberty Boys’ Shrewd Trick; or, Springing a Big Surprise.

  105 The Liberty Boys’ Cunning; or, Outwitting the Enemy.

  106 The Liberty Boys’ “Big Hit”; or, Knocking the Redcoats Out.

  107 The Liberty Boys “Wild Irishman”; or, A Lively Lad from Dublin.

  108 The Liberty Boys’ Surprise; or, Not Just What They Were Looking
        For.

  109 The Liberty Boys’ Treasure; or, A Lucky Find.

  119 The Liberty Boys in Trouble; or, A Bad Run of Luck.

  111 The Liberty Boys’ Jubilee; or, A Great Day for the Great Cause.

  112 The Liberty Boys Cornered; or, “Which Way Shall We Turn?”

  113 The Liberty Boys at Valley Forge; or, Enduring Terrible
        Hardships.

  114 The Liberty Boys Missing; or, Lost in the Swamps.

  115 The Liberty Boys’ Wager, And How They Won It.

  116 The Liberty Boys Deceived; or, Tricked but Not Beaten.

  117 The Liberty Boys and the Dwarf; or, A Dangerous Enemy.

  118 The Liberty Boys’ Dead-Shots; or, The Deadly Twelve.

  119 The Liberty Boys’ League; or, The Country Boys Who Helped.

  120 The Liberty Boys’ Neatest Trick; or, How the Redcoats were
        Fooled.

  121 The Liberty Boys Stranded; or, Afoot in the Enemy’s Country.

  122 The Liberty Boys in the Saddle; or, Lively Work for Liberty’s
        Cause.

  123 The Liberty Boys’ Bonanza; or, Taking Toll from the Tories.

  124 The Liberty Boys at Saratoga; or, The Surrender of Burgoyne.

  125 The Liberty Boys and “Old Put”; or, The Escape at Horseneck.

  126 The Liberty Boys’ Bugle Call; or, The Plot to Poison Washington.

  127 The Liberty Boys and “Queen Esther”; or, The Wyoming Valley
        Massacre.

  128 The Liberty Boys’ Horse Guard; or, On the High Hills of Santee.

  129 The Liberty Boys and Aaron Burr; or, Battling for Independence.

  130 The Liberty Boys and the “Swamp Fox”: or, Helping Marion.

 For Sale by All Newsdealers, or will be Sent to Any Address on Receipt
                     of Price, 5 Cents per Copy, by
 FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher,                     24 Union Square, New York.
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

                      IF YOU WANT ANY BACK NUMBERS

of our Libraries and cannot procure them from newsdealers, they can be
obtained from this office direct. Cut out and fill in the following
Order Blank and send it to us with the price of the books you want and
we will send them to you by return mail. =POSTAGE STAMPS TAKEN THE SAME
AS MONEY.=

                  *       *       *       *       *

 FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher, 24 Union Square, New York.             ....190
               DEAR SIR—Enclosed find ... cents for which please send me:
 .... copies of WORK AND WIN, Nos........................................
 .... copies of WILD WEST WEEKLY, Nos....................................
 .... copies of FRANK READE WEEKLY, Nos..................................
 .... copies of PLUCK AND LUCK, Nos......................................
 .... copies of SECRET SERVICE, Nos......................................
 .... copies of THE LIBERTY BOYS OF ’76, Nos.............................
 .... copies of Ten-Cent Hand Books, Nos.................................

 Name................ Street and No............. Town ........ State....

[Illustration]




                             SECRET SERVICE

                 OLD AND YOUNG KING BRADY, DETECTIVES.


          PRICE 5 CTS. 32 PAGES. COLORED COVERS. ISSUED WEEKLY

                             LATEST ISSUES:

  142 The Bradys and the Broker; or, The Plot to Steal a Fortune.

  143 The Bradys as Reporters; or, Working for a Newspaper.

  144 The Bradys and the Lost Ranche; or, The Strange Case In Texas.

  145 The Bradys and the Signal Boy; or, the Great Train Robbery.

  146 The Bradys and Bunco Bill; or, The Cleverest Crook in New York.

  147 The Bradys and the Female Detective; or, Leagued with the
        Customs Inspectors.

  148 The Bradys and the Bank Mystery; or, The Search for a Stolen
        Million.

  149 The Bradys at Cripple Creek; or, Knocking out the “Bad Men.”

  150 The Bradys and the Harbor Gang; or, Sharp Work after Dark.

  151 The Bradys in Five Points; or, The Skeleton in the Cellar.

  152 Fan Toy, the Opium Queen; or, The Bradys and the Chinese
        Smugglers.

  153 The Bradys’ Boy Pupil; or, Sifting Strange Evidence.

  154 The Bradys in the Jaws of Death; or, Trapping the Wire Tappers.

  155 The Bradys and the Typewriter; or, The Office Boy’s Secret.

  156 The Bradys and the Bandit King; or, Chasing the Mountain
        Thieves.

  157 The Bradys and the Drug Slaves; or, The Yellow Demons of
        Chinatown.

  158 The Bradys and the Anarchist Queen; or, Running Down the “Reds.”

  159 The Bradys and the Hotel Crooks; or, The Mystery of Room 44.

  160 The Bradys and the Wharf Rats; or, Lively Work in the Harbor.

  161 The Bradys and the House of Mystery; or, A Dark Night’s Work.

  162 The Bradys’ Winning Game; or, Playing Against the Gamblers.

  163 The Bradys and the Mail Thieves; or, The Man in the Bag.

  164 The Bradys and the Boatmen; or, The Clew Found in the River.

  165 The Bradys after the Grafters; or, The Mystery in the Cab.

  166 The Bradys and the Cross-Roads Gang; or, the Great Case in
        Missouri.

  167 The Bradys and Miss Brown; or, The Mysterious Case in Society.

  168 The Bradys and the Factory Girl; or, The Secret of the Poisoned
        Envelope.

  169 The Bradys and Blonde Bill; or, The Diamond Thieves of Maiden
        Lane.

  170 The Bradys and the Opium Ring; or, The Clew In Chinatown.

  171 The Bradys on the Grand Circuit; or, Tracking the Light-Harness
        Gang.

  172 The Bradys and the Black Doctor; or, The Secret of the Old
        Vault.

  173 The Bradys and the Girl in Grey; or, The Queen of the Crooks.

  174 The Bradys and the Juggler; or, Out with a Variety Show.

  175 The Bradys and the Moonshiners; or, Away Down in Tennessee.

  176 The Bradys in Badtown; or, The Fight for a Gold Mine.

  177 The Bradys in the Klondike; or, Ferreting Out the Gold Thieves.

  178 The Bradys on the East Side; or, Crooked Work in the Slums.

  179 The Bradys and the “Highbinders”; or, The Hot Case in Chinatown.

  180 The Bradys and the Serpent Ring; or, The Strange Case of the
        Fortune-Teller.

  181 The Bradys and “Silent Sam”; or, Tracking the Deaf and Dumb
        Gang.

  182 The Bradys and the “Bonanza” King; or, Fighting the Fakirs in
        ’Frisco.

  183 The Bradys and the Boston Banker; or, Hustling for Millions in
        the Hub.

  184 The Bradys on Blizzard Island; or, Tracking the Gold Thieves of
        Cape Nome.

  185 The Bradys in the Black Hills; or, Their Case in North Dakota.

  186 The Bradys and “Faro Frank”; or, A Hot Case in the Gold Mines.

  187 The Bradys and the “Rube”; or, Tracking the Confidence Men.

  188 The Bradys as Firemen; or, Tracking a Gang of Incendiaries.

  189 The Bradys in the Oil Country; or, The Mystery of the Giant
        Gusher.

  190 The Bradys and the Blind Beggar; or, The Worst Crook of All.

  191 The Bradys and the Bankbreakers; or, Working the Thugs of
        Chicago.

  192 The Bradys and the Seven Skulls; or, The Clew That Was Found in
        the Barn.

  193 The Bradys in Mexico; or, The Search for the Aztec Treasure
        House.

  194 The Bradys at Black Run; or, Trailing the Coiners of Candle
        Creek.

  195 The Bradys Among the Bulls and Bears; or, Working the Wires in
        Wall Street.

  196 The Bradys and the King; or, Working for the Bank of England.

  197 The Bradys and the Duke’s Diamonds; or, The Mystery of the
        Yacht.

  198 The Bradys and the Bed Rock Mystery; or, Working in the Black
        Hills.

  199 The Bradys and the Card Crooks; or, Working on an Ocean Liner.

  200 The Bradys and “John Smith”; or, The Man Without a Name.

  201 The Bradys and the Manhunters; or, Down in the Dismal Swamp.

  202 The Bradys and the High Rock Mystery; or, The Secret of the
        Seven Steps.

  203 The Bradys at the Block House; or, Rustling the Rustlers on the
        Frontier.

  204 The Bradys in Baxter Street; or, The House Without a Door.

  205 The Bradys Midnight Call; or, The Mystery of Harlem Heights.

  206 The Bradys Behind the Bars; or, Working on Blackwells Island.

  207 The Bradys and the Brewer’s Bonds; or, Working on a Wall Street
        Case.

  208 The Bradys on the Bowery; or, The Search for a Missing Girl.

  209 The Bradys and the Pawnbroker; or, A Very Mysterious Case.

  210 The Bradys and the Gold Fakirs; or, Working for the Mint.

  211 The Bradys at Bonanza Bay; or, Working on a Million Dollar Clew.

  212 The Bradys and the Black Riders; or, The Mysterious Murder at
        Wildtown.

  213 The Bradys and Senator Slam; or, Working With Washington Crooks.

  214 The Bradys and the Man from Nowhere; or, Their Very Hardest
        Case.

  215 The Bradys and “No. 99”; or, The Search for a Mad Millionaire.

  216 The Bradys at Baffin’s Bay; or, The Trail Which Led to the
        Arctic.

  217 The Bradys and Gim Lee; or, Working a Clew in Chinatown.

  218 The Bradys and the “Yegg” Men; or, Seeking a Clew on the Road.

  219 The Bradys and the Blind Banker; or, Ferreting out the Wall
        Street Thieves.

  220 The Bradys and the Black Cat; or, Working Among the Card Crooks
        of Chicago.

  221 The Bradys and the Texas Oil King; or, Seeking a Clew in the
        Southwest.

  222 The Bradys and the Night Hawk; or, New York at Midnight.

  223 The Bradys in the Bad Lands; or, Hot Work in South Dakota.

  224 The Bradys at Breakneck Hall; or, The Mysterious House on the
        Harlem.

  225 The Bradys and the Fire Marshal; or, Hot Work in Hornersville.

  226 The Bradys and the Three Sheriffs; or, Doing a Turn in
        Tennessee.

  227 The Bradys and the Opium Smugglers; or, A Hot Trail on the
        Pacific Coast.

  228 The Bradys’ Boomerang; or, Shaking Up the Wall Street Wire
        Tappers.

  229 The Bradys Among the Rockies; or, Working Away Out West.

  230 The Bradys and Judge Lynch; or, After the Arkansas Terror.

 For Sale by All Newsdealers, or will be Sent to Any Address on Receipt
                     of Price, 5 Cents per Copy, by
 FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher,                     24 Union Square, New York.
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

                      IF YOU WANT ANY BACK NUMBERS

of our Libraries and cannot procure them from newsdealers, they can be
obtained from this office direct. Cut out and fill in the following
Order Blank and send it to us with the price of the books you want and
we will send them to you by return mail. =POSTAGE STAMPS TAKEN THE SAME
AS MONEY.=

                  *       *       *       *       *

 FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher, 24 Union Square, New York.             ....190
         DEAR SIR—Enclosed find ... cents for which please send me:
 .... copies of WORK AND WIN, Nos.......................................
 .... copies of WILD WEST WEEKLY, Nos...................................
 .... copies of FRANK READE WEEKLY, Nos.................................
 .... copies of PLUCK AND LUCK, Nos.....................................
 .... copies of SECRET SERVICE, Nos.....................................
 .... copies of THE LIBERTY BOYS OF ’76, Nos............................
 .... copies of Ten-Cent Hand Books, Nos................................

 Name................ Street and No............. Town ........ State....




                            PLUCK AND LUCK.


          CONTAINS ALL SORTS OF STORIES. EVERY STORY COMPLETE.
 32 PAGES.            BEAUTIFULLY COLORED COVERS.        PRICE 5 CENTS.

                             LATEST ISSUES:

  188 On Time; or, The Young Engineer Rivals. An Exciting Story of
        Railroading in the Northwest. By Jas. C. Merritt.

  189 Red Jacket; or, The Boys of the Farmhouse Fort. By An Old Scout.

  190 His First Glass of Wine; or, The Temptations of City Life. A
        True Temperance Story. By Jno. B. Dowd.

  191 The Coral City; or, The Wonderful Cruise of the Yacht Vesta. By
        Richard R. Montgomery.

  192 Making a Million; or, A Smart Boy’s Career in Wall Street. By H.
        K. Shackleford.

  193 Jack Wright and His Electric Turtle; or, Chasing the Pirates of
        the Spanish Main. By “Noname.”

  194 Flyer Dave, the Boy Jockey; or, Riding the Winner. By Allyn
        Draper.

  195 The Twenty Gray Wolves; or, Fighting A Crafty King. By Howard
        Austin.

  196 The Palace of Gold; or, The Secret of a Lost Race. By Richard R.
        Montgomery.

  197 Jack Wright’s Submarine Catamaran; or, The Phantom Ship of the
        Yellow Sea. By “Noname.”

  198 A Monte Cristo at 18; or, From Slave to Avenger. By Allyn
        Draper.

  199 The Floating Gold Mine; or, Adrift in an Unknown Sea. By Capt.
        Thos. H. Wilson.

  200 Moll Pitcher’s Boy; or, As Brave as His Mother. By Gen’l Jas. A.
        Gordon.

  201 “We.” By Richard R. Montgomery.

  202 Jack Wright and His Ocean Racer; or, Around the World in 20
        Days. By “Noname.”

  203 The Boy Pioneers; or, Tracking an Indian Treasure. By Allyn
        Draper.

  204 Still Alarm Sam, the Daring Boy Fireman; or, Sure to Be On Hand.
        By Ex-Fire Chief Warden.

  205 Lost on the Ocean; or, Ben Bluff’s Last Voyage. By Capt. Thos.
        H. Wilson.

  206 Jack Wright and His Electric Canoe; or, Working in the Revenue
        Service. By “Noname.”

  207 Give Him a Chance; or, How Tom Curtis Won His Way. By Howard
        Austin.

  208 Jack and I; or, The Secrets of King Pharaoh’s Caves. By Richard
        R. Montgomery.

  209 Buried 5,000 Years; or, The Treasure of the Aztecs. By Allyn
        Draper.

  210 Jack Wright’s Air and Water Cutter; or, Wonderful Adventures on
        the Wing and Afloat. By “Noname.”

  211 The Broken Bottle; or, A Jolly Good Fellow. A True Temperance
        Story. By Jno. B. Dowd.

  212 Slippery Ben; or, The Boy Spy of the Revolution. By Gen’l Jas.
        A. Gordon.

  213 Young Davy Crockett; or, The Hero of Silver Gulch. By An Old
        Scout.

  214 Jack Wright and His Magnetic Motor; or, The Golden City of the
        Sierras. By “Noname.”

  215 Little Mac, The Boy Engineer; or, Bound To Do His Best. By Jas.
        C. Merritt.

  216 The Boy Money King; or, Working in Wall Street. A Story of a
        Smart New York Boy. By H. K. Shackleford.

  217 “I.” A Story of Strange Adventure. By Richard R. Montgomery.

  218 Jack Wright, The Boy Inventor, and His Under-Water Ironclad; or,
        The Treasure of the Sandy Sea. By “Noname.”

  219 Gerald O’Grady’s Grit; or, The Branded Irish Lad. By Allyn
        Draper.

  220 Through Thick and Thin; or, Our Boys Abroad. By Howard Austin.

  221 The Demon of the Deep; or, Above and Beneath the Sea. By Capt.
        Thos. H. Wilson.

  222 Jack Wright and His Electric Deers; or, Fighting the Bandits of
        the Black Hills. By “Noname.”

  223 At 12 o’clock; or, The Mystery of the Lighthouse. A Story of the
        Revolution. By Gen. Jas. A. Gordon.

  224 The Rival Boat Clubs; or, The Boss School at Beechwood. By Allyn
        Draper.

  225 The Haunted House on the Hudson; or, the Smugglers of the Sound.
        By Jas. C. Merritt.

  226 Jack Wright and His Prairie Engine, or Among the Bushmen of
        Australia. By “Noname.”

  227 A Million at 20; or, Fighting His Way in Wall Street. By H. K.
        Shackleford.

  228 Hook and Ladder No. 2. By Ex-Fire Chief Warden.

  229 On Deck; or, The Boy Pilot of Lake Erie. By Allyn Draper.

  230 Locomotive Fred; or, Life on the Railroad. By Jas. C. Merritt.

  231 Jack Wright and His Electric Air Schooner; or, The Mystery of a
        Magic Mine. By “Noname.”

  232 Philadelphia Phil; or, From a Bootblack to a Merchant. By Howard
        Austin.

  233 Custer’s Last Shot; or, The Boy Trailer of the Little Horn. By
        An Old Scout.

  234 The Rival Rangers; or, The Sons of Freedom. By Gen. Jas. A.
        Gordon.

  235 Old Sixty-Nine; or, The Prince of Engineers. By Jas. C. Merritt.

  236 Among the Fire-Worshippers; or, Two New York Boys in Mexico. By
        Howard Austin.

  237 Jack Wright and his Electric Sea Motor; or, The Search for a
        Drifting Wreck. By “Noname.”

  238 Twenty Years on an Island; or, The Story of a Castaway. By Capt.
        Thos. H. Wilson.

  239 Colorado Carl; or, The King of the Saddle. By An Old Scout.

  240 Hook and Ladder Jack, the Daring Young Fireman. By Ex-Fire Chief
        Warden.

  241 Ice-Bound; or, Among the Floes. By Berton Bertrew.

  242 Jack Wright and His Ocean Sleuth-Hound; or, Tracking an
        Under-Water Treasure. By “Noname.”

  243 The Fatal Glass; or, The Traps and Snares of New York. A True
        Temperance Story. By Jno. B. Dowd.

  244 The Maniac Engineer; or, A Life’s Mystery. By Jas. C. Merritt.

  245 Jack Wright and His Electric Locomotive; or, The Lost Mine of
        Death Valley. By “Noname.”

  246 The Ten Boy Scouts. A Story of the Wild West. By An Old Scout.

  247 Young Hickory, the Spy; or, Man, Woman, or Boy. By Gen’l Jas. A.
        Gordon.

  248 Dick Bangle, the Boy Actor. By N. S. Wood (The Young American
        Actor).

  249 A New York Boy in the Soudan; or, The Mahdi’s Slave. By Howard
        Austin.

  250 Jack Wright and His Electric Balloon Ship; or, 30,000 Leagues
        Above the Earth. By “Noname.”

  251 The Game-Cock of Deadwood; A Story of the Wild North-West. By
        Jas. C. Merritt.

  252 Harry Hook, The Boy Fireman of No. 1; or, Always at His Post. By
        Ex. Fire-Chief Warden.

  253 The Waifs of New York. By N. S. Wood (The Young American Actor.)

  254 Jack Wright and His Dandy of the Deep; or, Driven Afloat in the
        Sea of Fire. By “Noname.”

  255 In the Sea of Ice; or, The Perils of a Boy Whaler. By Berton
        Bertrew.

  256 Mad Anthony Wayne, The Hero of Stony Point. By Gen’l. Jas. A.
        Gordon.

  257 The Arkansas Scout; or, Fighting the Redskins. By An Old Scout.

  258 Jack Wright’s Demon of the Plains; or, Wild Adventures Among the
        Cowboys.

  259 The Merry Ten; or, The Shadows of a Social Club. By Jno. B.
        Dowd.

  260 Dan Driver, the Boy Engineer of the Mountain Express; or,
        Railroading on the Denver and Rio Grande.

  261 Silver Sam of Santa Fe; or, The Lion’s Treasure Cave. By An Old
        Scout.

  262 Jack Wright and his Electric Torpedo Ram; or, The Sunken City of
        the Atlantic. By “Noname.”

  263 The Rival Schools; or, Fighting for the Championship. By Allyn
        Draper.

  264 Jack Reef, the Boy Captain; or, Adventures on the Ocean. By
        Capt. Thos. H. Wilson.

 For Sale by All Newsdealers, or will be Sent to Any Address on Receipt
                     of Price, 5 Cents per Copy, by
 FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher,                     24 Union Square, New York.
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

                      IF YOU WANT ANY BACK NUMBERS

of our Libraries and cannot procure them from newsdealers, they can be
obtained from this office direct. Cut out and fill in the following
Order Blank and send it to us with the price of the books you want and
we will send them to you by return mail. =POSTAGE STAMPS TAKEN THE SAME
AS MONEY.=

                  *       *       *       *       *

 FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher, 24 Union Square, New York.             ....190
         DEAR SIR—Enclosed find ... cents for which please send me:
 .... copies of WORK AND WIN, Nos.......................................
 .... copies of WILD WEST WEEKLY, Nos...................................
 .... copies of FRANK READE WEEKLY, Nos.................................
 .... copies of PLUCK AND LUCK, Nos.....................................
 .... copies of SECRET SERVICE, Nos.....................................
 .... copies of THE LIBERTY BOYS OF ’76, Nos............................
 .... copies of Ten-Cent Hand Books, Nos................................

 Name................ Street and No............. Town ........ State....

                               THE STAGE.

No. 41. THE BOYS OF NEW YORK END MEN’S JOKE BOOK.—Containing a great
variety of the latest jokes used by the most famous end men. No amateur
minstrels is complete without this wonderful little book.

No. 42. THE BOYS OF NEW YORK STUMP SPEAKER.—Containing a varied
assortment of stump speeches, Negro, Dutch and Irish. Also end men’s
jokes. Just the thing for home amusement and amateur shows.

No. 45. THE BOYS OF NEW YORK MINSTREL GUIDE AND JOKE BOOK.—Something new
and very instructive. Every boy should obtain this book, as it contains
full instructions for organizing an amateur minstrel troupe.

No. 65. MULDOON’S JOKES.—This is one of the most original joke books
ever published, and it is brimful of wit and humor. It contains a large
collection of songs, jokes, conundrums, etc., of Terrence Muldoon, the
great wit, humorist, and practical joker of the day. Every boy who can
enjoy a good substantial joke should obtain a copy immediately.

No. 79. HOW TO BECOME AN ACTOR.—Containing complete instructions how to
make up for various characters on the stage; together with the duties of
the Stage Manager, Prompter, Scenic Artist and Property Man. By a
prominent Stage Manager.

No 80. GUS WILLIAMS’ JOKE BOOK.—Containing the latest jokes, anecdotes
and funny stories of this world-renowned and ever popular German
comedian. Sixty-four pages; handsome colored cover containing a
half-tone photo of the author.

                             HOUSEKEEPING.

No. 16. HOW TO KEEP A WINDOW GARDEN.—Containing full instructions for
constructing a window garden either in town or country, and the most
approved methods for raising beautiful flowers at home. The most
complete book of the kind ever published.

No. 30. HOW TO COOK.—One of the most instructive books on cooking ever
published. It contains recipes for cooking meats, fish, game, and
oysters; also pies, puddings, cakes and all kinds of pastry, and a grand
collection of recipes by one of our most popular cooks.

No. 37. HOW TO KEEP HOUSE.—It contains information for everybody, boys,
girls, men and women; it will teach you how to make almost anything
around the house, such as parlor ornaments, brackets, cements, Æolian
harps, and bird lime for catching birds.

                              ELECTRICAL.

No. 46. HOW TO MAKE AND USE ELECTRICITY.—A description of the wonderful
uses of electricity and electro magnetism; together with full
instructions for making Electric Toys, Batteries, etc. By George Trebel,
A. M., M. D. Containing over fifty illustrations.

No. 64. HOW TO MAKE ELECTRICAL MACHINES.—Containing full directions for
making electrical machines, induction coils, dynamos, and many novel
toys to be worked by electricity. By R. A. R. Bennett. Fully
illustrated.

No. 67. HOW TO DO ELECTRICAL TRICKS.—Containing a large collection of
instructive and highly amusing electrical tricks, together with
illustrations. By A. Anderson.

                             ENTERTAINMENT.

No. 9. HOW TO BECOME A VENTRILOQUIST.—By Harry Kennedy. The secret given
away. Every intelligent boy reading this book of instructions, by a
practical professor (delighting multitudes every night, with his
wonderful imitations), can master the art, and create any amount of fun
for himself and friends. It is the greatest book ever published, and
there’s millions (of fun) in it.

No. 20. HOW TO ENTERTAIN AN EVENING PARTY.—A very valuable little book
just published. A complete compendium of games, sports, card diversions,
comic recitations, etc., suitable for parlor or drawing-room
entertainment. It contains more for the money than any book published.

No. 35. HOW TO PLAY GAMES.—A complete and useful little book, containing
the rules and regulations of billiards, bagatelle, backgammon, croquet,
dominoes, etc.

No. 36. HOW TO SOLVE CONUNDRUMS.—Containing all the leading conundrums
of the day, amusing riddles, curious catches and witty sayings.

No. 52. HOW TO PLAY CARDS.—A complete and handy little book, giving the
rules and full directions for playing Euchre, Cribbage, Casino,
Forty-Five, Rounce, Pedro Sancho, Draw Poker, Auction Pitch, All Fours,
and many other popular games of cards.

No. 66. HOW TO DO PUZZLES.—Containing over three hundred interesting
puzzles and conundrums, with key to same. A complete book. Fully
illustrated. By A. Anderson.

                               ETIQUETTE.

No. 13. HOW TO DO IT; OR, BOOK OF ETIQUETTE.—It is a great life secret,
and one that every young man desires to know all about. There’s
happiness in it.

No. 33. HOW TO BEHAVE.—Containing the rules and etiquette of good
society and the easiest and most approved methods of appearing to good
advantage at parties, balls, the theatre, church, and the drawing-room.

                              DECLAMATION.

No. 27. HOW TO RECITE AND BOOK OF RECITATIONS.—Containing the most
popular selections in use, comprising Dutch dialect, French dialect,
Yankee and Irish dialect pieces, together with many standard readings.

No. 31. HOW TO BECOME A SPEAKER.—Containing fourteen illustrations,
giving the different positions requisite to become a good speaker,
reader and elocutionist. Also containing gems from all the popular
authors of prose and poetry, arranged in the most simple and concise
manner possible.

No. 49. HOW TO DEBATE.—Giving rules for conducting debates, outlines for
debates, questions for discussion, and the best sources for procuring
information on the questions given.

                                SOCIETY.

No. 3. HOW TO FLIRT.—The arts and wiles of flirtation are fully
explained by this little book. Besides the various methods of
handkerchief, fan, glove, parasol, window and hat flirtation, it
contains a full list of the language and sentiment of flowers, which is
interesting to everybody, both old and young. You cannot be happy
without one.

No. 4. HOW TO DANCE.—is the title of a new and handsome little book just
issued by Frank Tousey. It contains full instructions in the art of
dancing, etiquette in the ball-room and at parties, how to dress, and
full directions for calling off in all popular square dances.

No. 5. HOW TO MAKE LOVE.—A complete guide to love, courtship and
marriage, giving sensible advice, rules, and etiquette to be observed,
with many curious and interesting things not generally known.

No. 17. HOW TO DRESS.—Containing full instruction in the art of dressing
and appearing well at home and abroad, giving the selections of colors,
material, and how to have them made up.

No. 18. HOW TO BECOME BEAUTIFUL.—One of the brightest and most valuable
little books ever given to the world. Everybody wishes to know how to
become beautiful, both male and female. The secret is simple, and almost
costless. Read this book and be convinced how to become beautiful.

                           BIRDS AND ANIMALS.

No. 7. HOW TO KEEP BIRDS.—Handsomely illustrated and containing full
instructions for the management and training of the canary, mockingbird,
bobolink, blackbird, paroquet, parrot, etc.

No. 39. HOW TO RAISE DOGS, POULTRY, PIGEONS AND RABBITS.—A useful and
instructive book. Handsomely illustrated. By Ira Drofraw.

No. 40. HOW TO MAKE AND SET TRAPS.—Including hints on how to catch
moles, weasels, otter, rats, squirrels and birds. Also how to cure
skins. Copiously illustrated. By J. Harrington Keene.

No. 50. HOW TO STUFF BIRDS AND ANIMALS.—A valuable book, giving
instructions in collecting, preparing, mounting and preserving birds,
animals and insects.

No. 54. HOW TO KEEP AND MANAGE PETS.—Giving complete information as to
the manner and method of raising, keeping taming, breeding, and managing
all kinds of pets; also giving full instructions for making cages, etc.
Fully explained by twenty-eight illustrations, making it the most
complete book of the kind ever published.

                             MISCELLANEOUS.

No. 8. HOW TO BECOME A SCIENTIST.—A useful and instructive book, giving
a complete treatise on chemistry; also experiments in acoustics,
mechanics, mathematics, chemistry, and directions for making fireworks,
colored fires, and gas balloons. This book cannot be equaled.

No. 14. HOW TO MAKE CANDY.—A complete hand-book for making all kinds of
candy, ice-cream, syrups, essences, etc., etc.

No. 19. FRANK TOUSEY’S UNITED STATES DISTANCE TABLES, POCKET COMPANION
AND GUIDE.—Giving the official distances on all the railroads of the
United States and Canada. Also table of distances by water to foreign
ports, hack fares in the principal cities, reports of the census, etc.,
etc., making it one of the most complete and handy books published.

No. 38. HOW TO BECOME YOUR OWN DOCTOR.—A wonderful book, containing
useful and practical information in the treatment of ordinary diseases
and ailments common to every family. Abounding in useful and effective
recipes for general complaints.

No. 55. HOW TO COLLECT STAMPS AND COINS.—Containing valuable information
regarding the collecting and arranging of stamps and coins. Handsomely
illustrated.

No. 58. HOW TO BE A DETECTIVE.—By Old King Brady, the world-known
detective. In which he lays down some valuable and sensible rules for
beginners, and also relates some adventures and experiences of
well-known detectives.

No. 60. HOW TO BECOME A PHOTOGRAPHER.—Containing useful information
regarding the Camera and how to work it, also how to make Photographic
Magic Lantern Slides and other Transparencies. Handsomely illustrated.
By Captain W. De W. Abney.

No. 62. HOW TO BECOME A WEST POINT MILITARY CADET.—Containing full
explanations how to gain admittance, course of Study. Examinations,
Duties, Staff of Officers. Post Guard, Police Regulations, Fire
Department, and all a boy should know to be a Cadet. Compiled and
written by Lu Senarens, author of “How to Become a Naval Cadet.”

No. 63. HOW TO BECOME A NAVAL CADET.—Complete instructions of how to
gain admission to the Annapolis Naval Academy. Also containing the
course of instruction, description of grounds and buildings, historical
sketch, and everything a boy should know to become an officer in the
United States Navy. Compiled and written by Lu Senarens, author of “How
to Become a West Point Military Cadet.”

                PRICE 10 CENTS EACH, OR 3 FOR 25 CENTS.
      Address FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher, 24 Union Square, New York.




                              FRANK READE
                            WEEKLY MAGAZINE.

      Containing Stones of Adventures on Land, Sea and in the Air.


                              BY “NONAME.”

             Each Number in a Handsomely Illuminated Cover.
                     ☛A 32-PAGE BOOK FOR 5 CENTS.☚

All our readers know Frank Reade, Jr., the greatest inventor of the age,
and his two fun-loving chums, Barney and Pomp. The stories published in
this magazine contain a true account of the wonderful and exciting
adventures of the famous inventor, with his marvellous flying machines,
electrical overland engines, and his extraordinary submarine boats. Each
number is a rare treat. Tell your newsdealer to get you a copy.

  1 Frank Reade, Jr.’s White Cruiser of the Clouds; or, The Search for
        the Dog-Faced Men.

  2 Frank Reade, Jr.’s Submarine Boat, the “Explorer”; or, To the
        North Pole Under the Ice.

  3 Frank Reade, Jr.’s Electric Van; or, Hunting Wild Animals in the
        Jungles of India.

  4 Frank Reade, Jr.’s Electric Air Canoe; or, The Search for the
        Valley of Diamonds.

  5 Frank Reade, Jr.’s “Sea Serpent”; or, The Search for Sunken Gold.

  6 Frank Reade, Jr.’s Electric Terror, the “Thunderer”; or, The
        Search for the Tartar’s Captive.

  7 Frank Reade, Jr.’s Air Wonder, the “Kite”; or, A Six Weeks’ Flight
        Over the Andes.

  8 Frank Reade, Jr.’s Deep Sea Diver, the “Tortoise” or, The Search
        for a Sunken Island.

  9 Frank Reade, Jr.’s Electric Invention, the “Warrior”; or, Fighting
        Apaches in Arizona.

  10 Frank Reade, Jr., and His Electric Air Boat; or, Hunting Wild
        Beasts for a Circus.

  11 Frank Reade, Jr., and His Torpedo Boat; or, At War With the
        Brazilian Rebels.

  12 Fighting the Slave Hunters; or, Frank Reade, Jr., in Central
        Africa.

  13 From Zone to Zone; or, The Wonderful Trip of Frank Reade, Jr.,
        with His Latest Air Ship.

  14 Frank Reade, Jr., and His Electric Cruiser of the Lakes; or, A
        Journey Through Africa by Water.

  15 Frank Reade, Jr., and His Electric Turret; or, Lost in the Land
        of Fire.

  16 Frank Reade, Jr., and His Engine of the Clouds; or, Chased Around
        the World in the Sky.

  17 In the Great Whirlpool; or, Frank Reade, Jr.’s Strange Adventures
        in a Submarine Boat.

  18 Chased Across the Sahara; or, Frank Reade, Jr., After a Bedouin’s
        Captive.

  19 Six Weeks in the Clouds; or, Frank Reade, Jr.’s Air-Ship the
        “Thunderbolt.”

  20 Around the World Under Water; or, The Wonderful Cruise of a
        Submarine Boat.

  21 The Mystic Brand; or, Frank Reade, Jr., and His Overland Stage.

  22 Frank Reade, Jr.’s Electric Air Racer; or, Around the Globe in
        Thirty Days.

  23 The Sunken Pirate; or, Frank Reade, Jr., in Search of a Treasure
        at the Bottom of the Sea.

  24 Frank Reade. Jr.’s Magnetic Gun Carriage; or, Working for the U.
        S. Mail.

  25 Frank Reade, Jr., and His Electric Ice Ship; or, Driven Adrift in
        the Frozen Sky.

  26 Frank Reade, Jr.’s Electric Sea Engine; or, Hunting for a Sunken
        Diamond Mine.

  27 The Black Range; or, Frank Reade, Jr., Among the Cowboys with His
        Electric Caravan.

  28 Over the Andes with Frank Reade, Jr., in His New Air-Ship; or,
        Wild Adventures in Peru.

  29 Frank Reade, Jr., Exploring a Submarine Mountain; or, Lost at the
        Bottom of the Sea.

  30 Adrift in Africa; or, Frank Reade, Jr., Among the Ivory Hunters
        with His New Electric Wagon.

  31 Frank Reade, Jr.’s Search for a Lost Man in His Latest Air
        Wonder.

  32 Frank Reade, Jr.’s Search for the Sea Serpent; or, Six Thousand
        Miles Under the Sea.

  33 Frank Reade, Jr.’s Prairie Whirlwind; or, The Mystery of the
        Hidden Canyon.

  34 Around the Horizon for Ten Thousand Miles; or, Frank Reade, Jr.’s
        Most Wonderful Trip.

  35 Lost in the Atlantic Valley; or, Frank Reade, Jr., and his
        Wonder, the “Dart.”

  36 Frank Reade, Jr.’s Desert Explorer; or, The Underground City of
        the Sahara.

 For Sale by All Newsdealers, or will be Sent to Any Address on Receipt
                     of Price, 5 Cents per Copy, by
 FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher,                     24 Union Square, New York.
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

                      IF YOU WANT ANY BACK NUMBERS

of our Libraries and cannot procure them from newsdealers, they can be
obtained from this office direct. Cut out and fill in the following
Order Blank and send it to us with the price of the books you want and
we will send them to you by return mail. =POSTAGE STAMPS TAKEN THE SAME
AS MONEY.=

                  *       *       *       *       *

 FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher, 24 Union Square, New York.            ....190
         DEAR SIR—Enclosed find ... cents for which please send me:
 .... copies of WORK AND WIN, Nos.......................................
 .... copies of WILD WEST WEEKLY, Nos...................................
 .... copies of FRANK READE WEEKLY, Nos.................................
 .... copies of PLUCK AND LUCK, Nos.....................................
 .... copies of SECRET SERVICE, Nos.....................................
 .... copies of THE LIBERTY BOYS OF ’76, Nos............................
 .... copies of Ten-Cent Hand Books, Nos................................

 Name................ Street and No............. Town ........ State....




------------------------------------------------------------------------




Transcriber’s note:

 1. Added Table of Contents.

 2. Moved advertising from inside front cover to before inside back
      cover.

 3. Silently corrected typographical errors.

 4. Retained anachronistic and non-standard spellings as printed.



***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LOST IN THE ATLANTIC VALLEY***


******* This file should be named 56058-0.txt or 56058-0.zip *******


This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/5/6/0/5/56058


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org 

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

