The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Last Victory, by Tom Godwin

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll
have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using
this ebook.



Title: The Last Victory

Author: Tom Godwin

Release Date: September 16, 2019 [EBook #60309]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE LAST VICTORY ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                           THE LAST VICTORY

                             BY TOM GODWIN

               _He had only two aims in life: first, to
              get what he wanted; and after that to enjoy
                it. But to achieve the one he'd have to
                  give up the other ... or would he?_

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Worlds of If Science Fiction, August 1957.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


    _The transport ship, bound for Capella with Outlander colonists
    from Earth and Frontier Guards from Arcturus, struck the
    hyperspace vortex without warning. It seized her, wrenching and
    twisting her, and flung her across its gigantic rim at
    thousands of times the speed of light. She emerged into normal
    space in an unknown region of the galaxy, broken and driveless,
    but near enough a planet that she could descend by means of her
    antigravity plates before the last of her air was gone._

    _It was sunset when she settled heavily to earth on a grassy slope
    beside a forest, leaning at a dangerous angle with only her failing
    antigravity plates to hold her from falling. The dead had been
    disposed of in space and the living filed out of her: fifty
    Outlander men, women and children, eighteen ship's crewmen, and
    ten Frontier Guards._

    _The Guard officer and ship's captain came last, of equal rank and
    already appraising each other with cold speculation._

The Howling things in the dark forest were coming closer. Thane
listened as he watched Curry, the ship's captain, approach across the
strip of land that separated the two camps; standing back from his fire
as he waited, where he would make an uncertain target for an assassin's
blaster.

No one could be seen near any of the fires in the two camps on the
hill. Only the unarmed Outlanders, at their fires in the swale below,
moved about without wariness. And it was not yet three hours from the
landing of the ship.

Curry stopped before him, restrained anger on his arrogantly handsome
face.

"You failed to report to me and turn your Frontier Guards over to my
command as you were ordered," he said.

"Since your rank is no higher than mine I saw no reason to do so,"
Thane answered.

Curry smiled, very thinly. "Perhaps I can show you a reason."

"Perhaps. Let's have it."

"First, I want to remind you of our circumstances," Curry said. "The
ship will never lift again and we're marooned here for centuries to
come. You know what the reaction of the Outlanders will be."

The Outlanders were the outcasts of a society that could not
tolerate individuality. Two hundred years before the complexities of
civilization had combined technocracy with integration and produced
Technogration. Technogration had abolished race, creed and color,
nations and borders, had welded all into a common mass and prohibited
all individual pursuits that did not contribute to the Common Good. The
Outlanders, refusing to come under Technograte domination, lived as
best they could in the deserts, plateaus and jungles that Technogration
could not use. The ones on the ship had been bound for Capella Five
where men accustomed to wrestling a living from hostile environments
were needed. Under such circumstances Outlanders were given certain
rights and freedoms. Until they were no longer needed. Then, again,
they became a people without a world....

"For two hundred years the Outlanders have hated Technogration and
wanted a world where they could set up their own archaic form of
society," Curry said. "Now, those down there will think their millenium
has arrived and they can refuse to recognize Technograte authority."

"I see," Thane said. "And you want my cooperation so that Technogration
won't fall by the wayside?"

"Your willingness to accept a subordinate position would give me an
intact force of both crewmen and Guardsmen." Curry's lips thinned. "But
there will be Technogration, with or without your support. There will
be no retrogression back into the Outlanders' hallowed Dark Ages."

"There is no argument--we both want Technogration," Thane said. "We
only disagree over who should be in command."

"There is a slight difference in our qualifications. Your present rank
was gained by your ability to kill and not by loyalty to Technogration."

"Yes, of course," Thane agreed. "We'll say that I'm a materialistic
opportunist while you're a noble idealist. But it's still the same
identical whip that we're both going to reach for."

"As I said, I would prefer a peaceful transfer of your Guardsmen to my
command. But my crewmen outnumber them almost two to one and they are
expendable if necessary." The thin smile came back, almost mocking in
its confidence. "You haven't much choice but to cooperate and accept a
subordinate role, have you?"

The subordinate role would be very brief; it would end with a blaster
beam in the back as soon as the Guardsmen were transferred to Curry's
command....

"Try again, Curry. I can't bite on that one."

The smile faded from Curry's face, leaving it icily cold. "That was the
only opportunity you'll ever get."

The howling sounded again in the forest and Thane said:

"We understand each other, now. But the Outlanders are unarmed and
it may require our full forces to hold off whatever is out there. I
suggest a truce until morning."

The iciness remained on Curry's face and he did not reply at once.
"Perhaps you are right. You will order your men to observe a truce for
the rest of the night."

He turned back to his camp.

Thane made the rounds where his guards patrolled with their
searchlights probing out into the darkness. All of Curry's men but two
had been added to reinforce the guard ring around the Outlander camp;
most of the crewmen along the east and south lines, leaving the more
experienced Guardsmen to patrol the two lines facing the forest.

Guardsmen and crewmen patrolled in silence, watching one another with
the calculating regard of men who knew they might soon be ordered to
kill one another. Apparently it was obvious to all of them that two
officers of equal rank was a situation that could not for long exist.

His return to his camp took him through the scattered camp fires of the
Outlanders. There were not many men to be seen; most of the survivors
were women and children whom the Outlander leader had ordered into the
safer inner compartments when the ship began breaking up.

Thane met him at the second fire; a gaunt old man with a jutting gray
beard and sharp blue eyes under bristling gray brows. He stepped out
from the fire and spoke:

"Captain Thane--I'd like to ask a question."

Thane stopped. "What is it?"

"My name is Paul Kennedy and I speak for all of us," the old man said.
"Captain Curry has locked up all arms from us--he's already starting
the regimentation for a permanent Technograte colony here and making
sure we can't object. For two hundred years Technogration has failed
on Earth except to turn men into robots. Here we could have a new
chance and live like humans again."

"The question," Thane reminded him.

"You were in the Frontier Guards, where men still have to think for
themselves to survive, and we were hoping you would understand why we
don't want to start another ant hill here."

He could understand--but now, after thirty years of planning and
fighting, he was only one step from the top.

"There will be Technogration," he said.

"We thought you would say that." Kennedy's expression did not change.
"We hoped we would be wrong."

An ecstatic yelping sounded suddenly from nearby and something brown
and white raced across the firelit ground with a laughing boy in
pursuit. Thane stared.

It was a dog.

He had not seen one for thirty years. Technogration prohibited the
owning of pets as an unnecessary drain upon the planned economy and as
non-contributive to the Common Good.

"We knew about the regulations," Kennedy said, "but children need
pets to love and be loved by. She's going to have pups--only she and
Lornie's kitten were left." The old man's eyes watched him closely,
questioningly. "Surely, no one will object to them?"

The dog circled back and a dark haired young woman beyond another fire
called to it: "Binkie--come here!"

The dog obeyed, its tail drooping a little, and the woman looked
uncertainly in Thane's direction before she disappeared back in the
shadows, the dog close behind her. The boy followed, asking, "Why did
you stop us, Blanche?"

Thane watched them go, the sight of the boy and dog bringing back with
unwanted vividness the memory of another Outlander boy who had played
with his dog, long ago; bringing back the past that necessity had
forced him to forget....

He put the dangerous weakness from his mind and spoke to Kennedy:

"You Outlanders were bound for a Technograte world when you left Earth.
You now stand on a Technograte world. You will do as you are ordered to
do. As for your pets--you may have as many as you want so far as I'm
concerned."

He stepped past Kennedy and continued on through the camp. The
conversation of the Outlanders froze as he drew near, letting him walk
in a little sea of silence that moved along with him. It was the usual
reaction to the presence of a Technograte officer.

A little girl was out beyond the last fire; her back turned to him as
she knelt in the grass and worked at something. He came closer and saw
she was trying to tie a white cord around the neck of a half grown
kitten. It sat with resigned patience as she struggled with earnest,
inexperienced fingers to tie a knot that would not fall apart. She was
talking to it as she worked:

"--and maybe the things in the forest kill cats. So you'll have to stay
tied up, Tommy, and close to me because you're the only kitten on this
whole world--"

His shadow fell across her and she looked up. Black curls framed a
startled little face and gray eyes went wide at the sight of his
uniform. She seized the surprised kitten and held it protectively in
her arms, the knot falling apart again on the ground.

"Please--Tommy won't ever hurt anything--"

Two women and a man were watching him from beyond the fire with
frozen-faced hatred. Technograte regulations required the immediate
killing of any animals found smuggled aboard a ship....

"I won't harm your kitten," he said. He smiled sardonically at the
Outlanders beyond the fire. "My horns aren't quite that long yet."

       *       *       *       *       *

He met Curry when he was almost back to his camp. Curry had two
bodyguards with him and passed without speaking.

The hours went by and the night was like a cold October night on
Earth but for the strange constellations that crept across the sky.
The Outlander fires burned lower and the things in the forest became
silent, as though massing for a surprise attack. Twice the wind
shifted, to bring the scents from the forest, and each time he heard
the dog growl uneasily while the woman tried to quiet her.

He was going down the south guard line, the western horizon touched
with the light of coming moonrise, when the monsters attacked the north
line.

They broke suddenly from the forest with a demoniac howl of command
from their leader, a boiling wave of them. They were green, hard to see
against the green grass, racing low to the ground like giant tigers,
their long, serpentine necks thrust forward and eyes blazing yellow in
hyena faces.

The blaster fire of the Guardsmen met them, pale blue beams that
blossomed into brief incandescence when they struck. Curry's guards
added their fire, their reactions slower than those of the Guardsmen.
The guards along the other three lines turned to help halt the attack,
the south line guards firing across the Outlander camp.

The front rank of monsters went down, with them the leader. For an
instant the onslaught slowed, leaderless and uncertain, then the
monster that had been behind the leader gave the commanding howl and
the others surged ahead again.

At that moment, when the attention of every guard in every guard line
was on the north perimeter attack, the Outlander dog broke loose from
whoever had been holding her. She ignored the attack from the north and
was a blur as she went through the south guard line, screaming a snarl
of warning and her leash whipping in the air behind her. She vanished
behind the guard line and Thane swung his searchlight.

Five monsters were almost upon the backs of the unsuspecting guards,
charging without sound.

His blaster beam raked at them and two went down. The others struck
three guards with their bodies, knocking them to the ground before they
could fire. Then the monsters passed on, to lurch a dozen steps and
fall limply to the ground. They did not even twitch after they fell.

He saw, when he reached the first one, that it was dead. So were the
other two.

Yet there was not a blaster mark on them.

Then he saw another thing. One of the monsters had fallen with its jaws
slackly open and its teeth were visible. They were blunt and even.

Despite their ferocious appearance, the monsters were only herbivores.

The three fallen guards were getting to their feet, apparently
unharmed. Along the north perimeter the attack was over as suddenly
as it had begun; the leader of the monsters lying dead against the
guard line and all the others still alive fleeing wildly back into the
forest. Quiet came, broken only by the growling of the dog out near the
two monsters Thane had killed.

He turned his light on her, then went closer to make sure he had seen
rightly.

She was fighting something on the ground, green-eyed with fury as she
ripped and tore at it. But there was nothing there. Nothing.

"Binkie!"

The dark haired woman was coming toward them, wraithlike in a white
sleeping garment. The dog turned away, with a last rip at the nothing
it fought, and saw the three guards the monsters had knocked down. She
froze, like as though she saw something she could not believe.

Then, deadly with menace, a growl vibrated in her throat and she
crouched to attack them.

"Binkie--_don't_!" The voice of the girl was shrill with urgency. "Come
here--come here!"

The dog hesitated, then obeyed; going past the guards in a swift lope,
her head turned to watch them and her teeth bared in a snarl. The girl
seized the leash and girl and dog disappeared back into the Outlander
camp, both of them running.

Curry loomed out of the darkness, his two bodyguards with him, and
flashed his light over the fallen monsters.

"So you let three get through?" he said. He glanced to the north
guard line where the searchlights of the guards showed only the dark,
lifeless edge of the forest. "But no one was harmed and there's no
indication that they are going to attack again."

He regarded Thane with cold thoughtfulness. "Apparently the camp is in
no danger, after all."

To Thane the implication of his words was obvious: if the monsters were
not a menace his cooperation was no longer needed by Curry. The three
guards were Curry men and Curry had two with him. He was outnumbered
six to one....

"Sir--"

It was one of the three guards; Bellam, the ship's pharmacist. He
hurried up to Curry, the other two close behind him.

Curry swung on him, impatiently. "What is it?"

"We must combine our forces to fight a new danger. This camp is
infected with rabies."

"Rabies?"

"Yes, sir," Bellam answered. "The Outlander's dog had a convulsion
beyond the guard line and then almost attacked the three of us. That
dog is mad."

"How do you know it was a convulsion?" Thane asked.

"You saw it, yourself," Bellam answered.

He turned his head to face Thane as he spoke and Thane saw his eyes for
the first time.

They were the lifeless, staring eyes of a dead man.

He flicked his light over the faces of the other two guards. They were
the same; all three were like walking dead.

"Did the monsters harm you?" he asked Bellam.

Bellam hesitated, seeming to tense with suspicion. "No." The dead eyes
stared into his. "What makes you ask?"

He saw that Curry had noticed nothing different about the three guards.
It was typical of Curry; to him subordinates were only automatons to
carry out his orders.

"We were discussing a mad dog, Thane," Curry said. "Not the health
of my men." He spoke to Bellam. "As I recall, rabies was a
pre-Technogration plague, often fatal."

"The bite of a rabid animal is invariably fatal, the death prolonged
and painful," Bellam said. "There is no preventative or cure among the
medical supplies on the ship. The dog must be killed at once, together
with all other animals in the Outlander camp."

"If the dog was mad, why hasn't it bitten any of the Outlanders," Thane
asked Curry. "I suggest we keep it on a leash until we know for sure."

"The dog was smuggled aboard the ship in defiance of regulations,"
Curry said. "It would have been destroyed before had I known about it."

He turned to Bellam, ignoring Thane. "The three of you will search the
Outlander camp from end to end. Kill all animals and report to me the
names of the owners."

The three departed, to begin the search at the nearer end of the camp.
Thane made no further objection. He knew the Outlanders well enough
to know that they would have overheard the discussion on the hill and
slipped the dog out through the guard lines before that discussion
ended. Outlanders could be very clever in such matters--the searchers
would find no dog.

There was satisfaction on Curry's face as he turned and with his two
bodyguards started back up the hill to his camp. Thane watched him go,
smiling a little. Curry was making the mistake that had been fatal for
so many before him; he was taking it for granted too soon that he had
won.

A man came hurrying from the north guard line before Curry had gone
far. He called to Curry:

"Sir, there is something you ought to know--"

Thane saw, with almost disbelief, that it was one of his own men:
Gorman.

Curry waited and when Gorman reached him he said:

"When I was helping inspect the Outlander section of the ship for
hidden weapons this evening I saw some small animals in storage
compartment Thirteen. I think they were very young kittens. I would
like to volunteer to go and kill them."

Curry said something that a vagrant breeze made inaudible then his
words came clear:

"--I'll send a detail to the ship as soon as the camp is searched. You
will report to my guards now for orders and help them hunt for the dog."

Gorman started back to meet the guards and Curry stood for a little
while before he went on his way. Thane could imagine his feeling of
pleased surprise and triumph.

Thane called to Gorman as he passed some distance in front of him.

"Were you injured in the attack?" he asked.

"No," Gorman said. Then, with the same tense suspicion that Bellam had
had he asked the same question: "Why do you ask?"

"Why did you report to Curry instead of me?"

The answer came quickly, mechanically, "The animals are in his ship and
they must be killed. They may be mad."

"Go help Curry's men," he said and watched Gorman go, trying to fit
together the incidents that did not make sense.

Herbivores had attacked without reason. There had fallen dead, without
a blaster mark on them. The Outlander dog had fought nothing and almost
attacked the guards. One of his own men had gone over to the other
side. And there was a sudden strange urgency to kill all animals in
camp.

There was nothing he could do for the time being but wait for further
developments so he waited. The moon came up, so swift in its retrograde
orbit that its speed was visible and so near that it had the brilliance
of a dozen Earth moons. When it had lifted clear of the horizon it
flooded the land with a cold silver light that made the searchlights
of the guards unnecessary and revealed the camp with metallic
light-and-shadow clarity.

The search party was halfway through the camp, Gorman with them and
Bellam in command. They were ransacking the possessions and temporary
shelters of the Outlanders with swift efficiency, ignoring the protests
of the women and their blasters leveled warningly on the men.

They found the little girl.

She was carrying her kitten ahead of them, a small, silent shadow in
the moonlight, when Gorman saw her. He spoke to Bellam and Bellam's
head jerked up. Then the two of them advanced on her.

She tried to run when she realized they had seen the kitten, hugging it
in her arms with the white cord trailing behind her. Bellam overtook
her and caught her by the shoulder, jerking her to a halt. He tore the
kitten from her arms and flung it hard to the ground. It made a thin
little scream of pain and the girl fought to reach it, her cry sobbing
and frantic:

"_Don't hurt him_--"

Gorman's blaster hissed and blue flame leaped from it. Incandescence
enveloped the kitten and then there was nothing where it had been but a
small black hole in the ground.

Bellam and Gorman wheeled back, like mechanical men, to resume the
search. The girl stood a moment, staring before her, saying something
very low that sounded like, "_Tommy ... Tommy...._" Then she stumbled
to the little black hole and dropped to her knees beside it as though
she hoped that somehow she might still find her kitten there.

He looked away, strangely disturbed. He drummed his fingers restlessly
on the butt of his holstered blaster then he turned again to go down
into the Outlander camp.

The moon was up and it was time he found the dog. Something had come
out of the night with the monsters and perhaps she could tell him what
it was. He could not yet believe she was mad.

       *       *       *       *       *

The dark haired woman stood by the fire, watching the little girl
and the searchers with bitter, smouldering hatred. She faced him, her
breath coming fast in her anger.

"Her parents and her brother--when the ship broke up--she lost them
all. Only her kitten was left to her."

"Where is the dog?" he asked.

"Find her!"

"The dog--where is she?"

"Find her," she challenged again. "Find her and kill her--if you can!"

He stepped past her and went on his way. She had told him what he
wanted to know: despite her attempts not to do so she had been unable
to keep from glancing toward the ship.

       *       *       *       *       *

His route took him by the little girl. She was standing by the hole,
small and bare-footed in the grass, her hands holding the white cord
that was black and charred on one end. She was crying, silently, as
though too proud to let him see her break.

After he had passed her the vision went with him for a little way;
the terrible, helpless hatred and hurt in her eyes and the moonlight
gleaming coldly on her tears.

He looked back when he reached the ship. Gorman was coming, running,
and the other three were turning back from the far end of the camp to
hurry after Gorman.

He looked toward Curry's camp and saw Curry watching him. Curry and his
men moved toward him and there were six to make a rendezvous with him.

The truce was over.

He found the dog behind the farthest tail fin, leashed to a thorny bush
and almost invisible in the shadows.

She watched him as he stopped before her, her ears forward
questioningly and her tail moving a little with tentative friendliness.
He spoke to her and her reply was a low bark, her tail whipping with
delight. She thought he had come to release her....

He had known dogs well as a boy and he knew the one before him was not
mad.

He heard Gorman's feet plodding fast through the grass and he waited
with his blaster in his hand.

Gorman came around the tail fin, panting, his own blaster in his hand.
The dog went rigid at the sight of him, the growl in her throat, and
Gorman's blaster swung toward her.

"_Hold it!_" he ordered.

Gorman paused, and the dead eyes looked into his. "There the mad dog
is--we must kill it."

"We can kill it later if it's mad. We'll watch it a while, first."

The suspicion became like something almost tangible about Gorman and
his blaster started the first movement toward Thane.

"_Why?_"

"I think it can see something--"

Gorman fired, so swiftly that he felt the heat of the beam even though
he had been expecting it. He shot for the heart and Gorman collapsed
before he could fire again. He lay still on the ground, the eyes that
stared up into the sky no deader than when he had been alive.

The dog was lunging against her leash, trying to get to him. Thane
stepped closer and watched the grass beside Gorman's head. A patch of
it the size of his hand suddenly bent down, as from an unseen weight,
and then something struck his knee.

He slapped at it as it darted up his leg and knocked it off; something
that felt like a mass of cold, rubbery tentacles. He knew, then.

He stepped back, his blaster swinging aimlessly. The thing would
leap again, to reach his head as it had done with Gorman, and it was
invisible. There was nothing but the moonlit grass to be seen. Perhaps
it was behind him, already preparing to spring....

The dog's snarling was a frenzied scream as she fought against her
leash. He swung his blaster and its blue beam cut the leash in two.

She flashed toward him, then up, her ears laid back, her eyes blazing
slits and her teeth slashing at his throat. His blaster was in line
with her chest and for a brief instant he had only to press the firing
stud.

He did something he had not done for thirty years; he trusted his life
to another being and did not fire.

Cold tentacles whipped against his face and her teeth closed together
beside his cheek with a vicious snap and gust of hot breath. She
rebounded and held the thing on the ground between her paws as she tore
at it; gagging a little, whining and snarling in fury and triumph.

He squatted beside her and laid his hand on her, speaking to her
soothingly. She calmed a little, though her chest still pounded with
the beating of her heart, and he saw the thing she had killed.

It was dead and slowly becoming visible as it changed to a color like
pale milk. It resembled a huge, hairless spider.

It was a parasite; a highly intelligent parasite that could take over
the mind of its host as well as the body. The parasites had had only
the forest monsters as hosts, before, but with the coming of the
humans they had the opportunity for hosts of a far higher order. They
possessed a means of locomotion but apparently it was limited in its
duration or else they would not have needed to control the leaders of
the monster bands and stage the attack that would carry them to the
guard lines.

The dog, with the acute sixth sense of some animals, could sense the
hostile alienness of the things. She could see them--apparently the
vision range of dogs went a little farther beyond that of humans. So
also would that of cats but the kitten had had no chance to show by its
actions what it had seen.

The dog had hated the changed men because they were alien things, no
longer human. The thing that had been Bellam had used the knowledge
stored in Bellam's mind to claim there was rabies in the camp and
thereby enlist the support of the humans in killing their only means of
detecting the parasites.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was a pounding of feet beyond the ship as the zombies came.
On the slope above him Curry was striding toward him, his bodyguards
flanking him and the moonlight bright on his face.

He stood with the dog beside him and watched them come to kill him.
Only he and the dog knew of the parasites; if they were killed the way
would be open for the parasites to infiltrate the camp. In the end the
new world would hold only the walking dead, down to the last Outlander
child.

"Curry," he called.

He did not have to speak loudly in the still night air for Curry to
hear him but Curry came on, his face hard, arrogant metal in the
moonlight.

"Give me one minute, Curry, to tell you what I found."

Curry's reply was the order to his men.

"The dog is with him. Kill them both."

His blaster swung up as he spoke.

Thane dropped, firing as he went down. Curry's arrogant face dissolved
into nothing and his blaster flamed aimlessly into the ground at his
feet. The blaster of the swiftest guard sent its beam hissing like a
snake over Thane's head, then he went down as Curry had done, the other
guard falling beside him with his first and only shot licking off into
the moonlight.

Then the zombies came around the tail fin, in a quick rush with their
dead eyes staring and their blasters making a curtain of blue fire
before them.

The dog lunged at them and a blaster beam dipped down to meet her.
Bellam--his headless body was falling forward as Thane killed the
zombie beside him. The blaster of the third one ripped its beam like
a white-hot iron along Thane's ribs as he died. Then, within two
heartbeats, it was over and the night was quiet again.

He returned his blaster to its holster. The dog was limping from one
zombie to the other, searching for parasites, her shoulder red with
blood and staining the grass.

She found none and he called her to him to look at her shoulder. It was
not a serious wound but it was painful and bleeding fast and should be
cared for. He took her around the ship, where the Outlander camp lay
in view below. He looked again at the wound and she whimpered a little
from the pain, gentle though his touch had been, then licked his hand
in quick apology.

"Your job is over for now," he said. He motioned toward the camp below,
where the dark haired woman was waiting. "Home, girl--go home."

She left him and went running and limping down the hill where her hurts
would be cared for.

       *       *       *       *       *

His side was burning and blood was like a warm, wet sheet down it. He
made a temporary bandage of his shirt and then leaned wearily against
the tail fin.

It was all over. The nature of the parasites was known and everyone
could be fitted with a thin metal helmet until they were completely
eliminated. They did not seem to be numerous--apparently there had
been no more than ten or twelve among the scores of monsters. The dog
would watch, and warn them if any more were in the vicinity.

It was all over, with Curry a motionless spot on the hillside above
him and no one left to challenge him. He had come a long way from the
Outlander boy on the high, cold prairie who had hated Technogration. He
had been nineteen before he finally realized the futility of hating the
unassailable power of Technogration and realized he must accept it and
adapt to it. And then carve out a niche for himself with a ruthlessness
greater than any of those around him. So he had fought his way up,
trampling those who would have trampled him had they been a little
stronger, each step another victory in his conquest of the system that
had condemned him.

And now--the last victory. There was no one to challenge him; there
could be no one under the rigid discipline of Technogration.

The last victory. The security of Power to the end of his life.

That was Technogration.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dawn touched the sky, softening the moon's hard light. As though the
coming of day was a signal, the ship trembled and there was the whisper
of dislodged soil as the tail fin lifted a fraction of an inch. The
antigravity plates were almost exhausted--the ship would fall within
minutes.

Down in the Outlander camp the children were gathering around the dog
as the dark haired woman bandaged her shoulder. A voice came to him,
treble and joyous, "Binkie is back--Binkie is back...."

The little girl sat to one side, so small and alone that he almost
failed to see her. She watched the children crowd up to pet their dog
but she did not move to join them. Only her hands moved, caressing the
white cord that was charred on one end.

He felt the triumph and satisfaction become like something turned
bitter around the edges and draining away.

Technogration was planning and fighting and killing until at last a man
reached the top and no one dared oppose him; Technogration was control
of a world and the seeds of an empire.

And Technogration was a child crying in the cold moonlight, was a
little black hole where a kitten had screamed out with pain, with
a little girl's heart that had nothing left to hold but harsh and
poignant memories and a piece of burnt cord.

He ran to the boarding ramp, feeling the fiery lash of pain and hot
flow of blood as the wound reopened, telling himself he was a fool who
would probably die in the falling ship and would deserve it.

       *       *       *       *       *

He stood by the gray ashes of his fire, the Guardsman's combat helmet
under his arm, and watched the little girl come alone up the hill.
Someone had washed the tear-stains from her face and she stopped before
him with her head held high and defiant, trying not to let him see she
was afraid of him and almost succeeding.

"I sent for you, Lornie, to tell you I'm sorry about last night."

He saw she did not believe him. Her face was like a little carving of
cold, unforgiving stone and she did not answer him.

He set the helmet down in the grass before her. Six tiny kittens lay
inside it, red and white and gray fluffs of fur, their pink mouths
questing hungrily.

Her eyes widened with incredulous wonder.

"_Oh!_"

Then the suspicion came back and she stopped the quick forward step she
had taken.

"They haven't any mother and they're hungry," he said.

She did not move.

"They're yours, Lornie. To keep."

"They're--mine?" Then the doubt fled from her and she ran forward to
gather them in her arms.

He left her with her head bent down over the kittens in her lap, making
soft little sounds of endearment to them, her face so radiant that
there was no room left for hurt or hatred on it.

Kennedy was coming, not yet knowing why he had been summoned nor
that Technogration had died at dawn. He would not relinquish all his
authority, of course. And he would have to remember to tell Kennedy
that they were going to give him one of Binkie's pups.

The companionship of an understanding dog might be comforting in the
years to come, whenever he recalled the morning he had owned a world
and a bare-footed girl had taken it away from him.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Last Victory, by Tom Godwin

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE LAST VICTORY ***

***** This file should be named 60309.txt or 60309.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/0/3/0/60309/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
